Armor

A Guardian's second skin.

<|endoftext|>

Hunter

Agile and daring, Hunters are quick on their feet and quicker on the draw.

<|endoftext|>

Binary Phoenix

What's the Crucible? Before the days of the City and the Iron Lords, it was a place to pursue vendettas. To battle for territory, and pettier reasons. The whole world was a Crucible arena. The Crucible today? To Cayde-6, it's a gambler's paradise. To Zavala, it's a resource sink where equipment goes to die. To Ikora, it's home—though she would never admit it. 

Partial answers. The tactics and techniques that will save us in wars to come are birthed in the Crucible, during live-fire training. The Vanguard are so preoccupied with their own agendas they're missing the Vanguard of tomorrow rising right before their eyes. 

Ghosts find Guardians. The Crucible forges them. 
– Lord Shaxx

<|endoftext|>

Wing Contender

A CRUCIBLE STORY
PART TWO OF THREE

Shaxx stared at them.

"So. You're going to pick two," Cayde said.

Shaxx looked down at him. "Pick two what?"

"Two of the little brats. You'll pick a team of two, and you're going to train them in this… sport they play here. It's some kind of tournament. You know all about those."

Shaxx surveyed the field.

"This is ridiculous," he concluded.

"That's not the last time you're going to say that today, but you've made your bed. Get comfy."

"I can pay you Glimmer. Two Crucible matches' worth. Why waste my time on children?"

A child sped past and waved at Cayde as Shaxx spoke. Cayde responded with an upward thumb.

"I like bugging you. Plus, you'd be surprised what goes on out here that only these little miscreants know about."

Beneath the helmet, Shaxx stared holes into the Exo's face.

"They run very fast. Listen, I know you're going to be you, but try to keep them intact. I make sure a Guardian they know comes to visit them once in a while. You weren't the kids' first choice, or even their tenth, but you were the only one I could get leverage on this week."

Shaxx stood motionless, but his fury engulfed the air like a flame. Cayde turned to leave, his cloak billowing in the wind behind him. "I'm going to make so many Crucible bets while you're gone."

"You wouldn't dare," Shaxx began, but Cayde was already lost in a departing crowd of adults.

Shaxx let out a breath, then scanned the field again, past child after squirming child. He quickly discerned the two on the field with the best athletic potential. Two Human girls, snarling as they swung branches at each other, seemingly impervious to pain. He walked past them, through the crowd, and several elders paused just briefly enough in their youth wrangling to let their jaws hang. Lord Shaxx navigated the unruly sea with grace, and headed toward a lone tree in a corner of the field. An Awoken girl and a Human boy sat huddled below it.

As Shaxx's shadow eclipsed them, they looked up at him with the same brightness in their eyes. "What are your names?" he demanded. "Runa," said the Awoken with some disdain. She returned the blank stare of Shaxx's faceplate. "My name is Lonwabo," recited the Human, more like a question than a statement.

"You look bored, Runa," Shaxx observed. "And you look worried, Lonwabo." He pointed at the boy, who scooted back, startled.

"As far as I'm concerned that makes both of you more intelligent than all these other dregs," said the Titan. "You're with me. I need the rules of engagement." Shaxx stared at them, and they stared back. "Someone talk to me."

They both spoke at once, and Shaxx listened in silence as they talked over each other to explain the game: Teams of two launch orb projectiles at each other, and players struck are eliminated. If both players on a team are eliminated, the team is out of the tournament, and their chance to play on the field is over.

"What do you call this drill? Skirmish? Supremacy?" Shaxx demanded.

"Dodge ball," said Runa.

"We'll work on the name. Follow my instructions, and I will lead you to victory."

Shaxx waved one of the adults over.

"Lord—Lord Shaxx?" said the Exo male.

"Shaxx is fine." Only Guardians owed him respect. "Find my team a match. Sooner the better."

Shaxx brought Lonwabo and Runa to the field, and kneeled. His hands engulfed their shoulders like a pair of descending moons. "My friends. Should you be killed, others lesser than you will take your place. Don't fight for yourself. Fight for those poor fools."

Lonwabo opened his mouth as if to speak, but hiccupped instead.

Shaxx turned them both around to face the sun and the other team across the field. He kneeled so low that his face was level with theirs. The three stared at the opposition: two Human boys, eyes glaring, fists balled in determination. Their elder stood behind them, her eyes wide as she recognized Lord Shaxx.

Runa yawned and rubbed her face, trying to clear the sleep from it.

Shaxx whispered to his new charges. "Crush them."

<|endoftext|>

Cinder Pinion Cowl

"Do I fear it?"

Lord Shaxx stooped to bring himself slightly closer to the recruit's eye level.

"Tell me: if I were to wear your helmet, would I fight as you do?"

The Guardian shrank visibly and shook her head.

"Of course not. We use the weapons of our enemies, but we do not become them. Do you know why that is?"

The recruit stayed silent. Shaxx put his hand on her shoulder.

"Because a weapon does not change a warrior. If a weapon makes you a monster, you were a monster to begin with."

He turned to the other Guardians.

"We are surrounded by fear. It presses on us from every direction. If you fear the hearts of your brothers and sisters, then speak to them."

Shaxx nudged the recruit. She tentatively raised her hand and summoned a fistful of Stasis crystals. He nodded with approval.

"If the heart you fear is your own," he said gently, "speak to me."

<|endoftext|>

Cinder Pinion Grasps

It was the morning of the new Crucible season when the shout echoed through the Tower.

Master Rahool flinched, fumbling his engram.

Commander Zavala looked up from his desk.

Kadi 55-30 hurried to steady a haphazard pile of shipments.

In the Hangar, a flock of well-fed pigeons took wing.

"THEY ARE THROWING NEW GRENADES!"

<|endoftext|>

Cinder Pinion Vest

Lord Shaxx charged onto the Crucible field.

"Gather close, my champions," he shouted. "Yes, both teams. I want to congratulate you."

The Guardians peeked warily from cover, then assembled before Shaxx.

"I remember the first time I saw a Hard Light shot bounce around a corner," he began. "The first time I handed over a Mountaintop. The first Guardian to bring Gjallarhorn to my Crucible."

The huge man shook his head fondly.

"I know the powers you hold will soon be commonplace, but I wanted to acknowledge you for being among the first to bring them here. To me."

"Thank you for showing me your crystal columns," he said to a Titan.

"For the swirling maelstrom brought by your staff," he said, nodding at a Warlock.

"And you!"

He walked to a Hunter in a few long strides and clapped him on the back. The Hunter tumbled to the ground so hard, his weapons reloaded.

"You threw scythes at them!" boomed Shaxx gleefully.

He helped the Hunter to his feet, then turned back toward the group. "May your strength guide us through whatever troubles are yet to come," he said, and saluted. The Guardians bowed.

Lord Shaxx stood proudly for a moment, his hands on his hips. "What are you waiting for?" he cried. "Resume the match!" And the Guardians fell upon each other once more.

<|endoftext|>

Cinder Pinion Strides

The dejected Warlock walked away from the Crucible with his Ghost hovering over his shoulder.

"He noticed, didn't he," said the Warlock flatly.

"Don't know what you mean," lied the Ghost.

"Shaxx. He saw when I—" the Warlock spread his hands, fingers splayed, and wiggled his fingertips.

The Ghost shrugged his points and gave a noncommittal beep. "He may have."

The Warlock groaned. "How bad did it look?"

The Ghost made a sympathetic noise. "Not bad."

The Warlock stared blankly at his Ghost.

"Okay, pretty bad," the Ghost admitted. "You shattered."

"Shattered… how?"

"Like a statue somebody knocked over," said the Ghost. "You just went everywhere. Everything broke except for your boots."

The Warlock exhaled slowly. "And Shaxx saw?"

"He probably did, yeah."

The Warlock shrank into his hood. "What makes you think so?"

"Well, because," the Ghost said carefully, "he said you had nice boots."

<|endoftext|>

Cinder Pinion Cloak

Lord Shaxx looked down at the City as he spoke.

"The children in the City have always played at being Guardians. Shouting about their hammers and shields, swinging branches as Dawnblades. Many a time, I would pretend to be slain by one of their attacks as I walked through the City, and they would always laugh."

He gripped the railing in his fist.

"Now they shout different words as they play. They call forth different powers. When struck, they hold positions, freeze in place, keep still. Their smiles fix on their faces. They fall perfectly quiet."

He began to say something else and gestured emptily toward the City, but his hand fell to his side. He turned toward you.

"You and I, we are warriors. We know the weight of our weapons when we draw them. But the children…"

His voice was quiet.

"It unsettles me."

<|endoftext|>

Cloak of Remembrance

A TALE FROM THE DARK AGE, PART ONE OF THREE 
ATOP A DUSTY CLIFFSIDE

Saladin and Efrideet stand, the wind tearing at the cloth on their armor. Dreg corpses surround the two Lightbearers, framed by broken weapons and bullet shells. Efrideet ejects the last spent round from her rifle. "I'm out of ammo."

"Then leave this to me."

"You don't trust me? Are you going to make me ask again?"

"In truth, I'd like to make you leave. I can handle the rest."

"Fine. Handle it. I just came to talk."

Saladin stares. He turns a fist-sized rock over and over in his hands.

Efrideet continues. "I heard you're trying to put an end to the fighting. They say you're recruiting people with the gift."

"I'm looking for someone who can do more than use a firearm."

"But no one shoots better than me."

Saladin looks at her and doesn't answer. He turns, pointing. Far below them rest a dilapidated village to the west and a makeshift bunker to the east, covered in Fallen sigils. A desolate field lies in between, burnt and charred, covered in the dead. "The village is called Patch Run," he says. "Population forty-three last week. Half of that at fighting capacity."

"That's a collection of huts. Not a village." Efrideet's voice softens. Saladin's hardens in return.

"It's a noble life." He pauses. "I make it my duty to patrol this area. I thought crushing that Fallen House every week would dissuade them. They keep returning."

The two hear the roar of the Fallen Skiff before they see it tear across the sky. It releases a Walker, which drops into the field like a meteor, digging deep into the gravel in front of the bunker. The Walker begins to unfurl its legs as the Skiff takes off, heading to the blooming eruptions of a conflict in the distance.

Efrideet grows impatient. "Come on! You have any ammo?"

"I have Light." Saladin tosses the rock in his hand and opens two palms writhing with Arc bolts. "But it's out of range. Even for me. We'll have to take the long way down."

"As if there's time." Below, the Walker begins a march across the field. "I could throw you."

Saladin emits a single, sharp laugh. When she says nothing, he turns to stare. Realizes it's not a joke. "There's no dignity in that."

"Is there dignity in letting those people die?"

Saladin doesn't respond. He looks down the mountainside…

<|endoftext|>

Iron Forerunner Mask

I.

Saladin remembers what it was like to be young. He remembers the exhilaration of discovering the infinite power he now holds in his hands. He remembers the terror, too—his first death and the agony of a ruptured lung. His mouth had been too full of blood to form words or plead with his Ghost, so he tried with his eyes instead.

Saladin remembers his second death because it was quicker than his first: a wrong step in a minefield outside of what used to be a city called Nur-Sultan. He laughed when his Ghost reassembled him. Then, he cried.

Saladin remembers deaths three through sixty-five but does not dwell on them. Instead, he regrets the thousands of hours of sleep lost to nightmares, and how much less vibrant his recollection of that period in his life is compared to his noble centuries spent as an Iron Lord.

Saladin remembers the day he stopped counting deaths. "Something about you is different," Jolder had said, and put her hand on his.

Saladin remembers all this and more when he looks at the Crow. He feels rage form a hot pit in his belly when Osiris tells him about the young Lightbearer's suffering at the hands of his fellow Guardians. Osiris asks him if he can keep a secret.

"I don't like secrets," Saladin says, and that's the end of it.

<|endoftext|>

Iron Forerunner Grips

II.

Saladin remembers burying bodies by the dozens. He remembers being thankful that the ground had thawed early that year, so they wouldn't have to burn them. Fires brought light and smoke—and light and smoke brought Fallen Raiders. Fallen Raiders brought more bodies.

"It's a vicious circle," Efrideet had said as she tied off a funeral shroud with great care. Saladin remembers the bundle being very small. "One day, I'm going to break it."

Saladin remembers how easily the body fit in his arms, how light it felt as he laid it in the grave. He remembers, with shame, pretending not to hear Efrideet's words so he wouldn't need to respond to them.

He remembers not having anything kind to say.

Saladin remembers all this and more whenever the Crow talks back to him. Sometimes, he bites down on the inside of his cheek. Sometimes, he looks up to find his Ghost focused on him with a knowing look.

He doesn't say anything to his Ghost either.

<|endoftext|>

Iron Forerunner Vest

III.

Saladin remembers losing his connection to the Light. He remembers thinking that the Traveler must have discovered his most secret doubts; the darkest thoughts he shared with no one—not even his Ghost. He remembers the strange sense of relief that had washed over him until his radio crackled to life just moments later.

He remembers hearing a voice broadcast to the world that the Last City had fallen to the Cabal, but he could not tell you whose voice it was—only that it wasn't Zavala's.

"Saladin," his Ghost had said, sounding like it spoke from the end of a very long, very wide tunnel. "You have to move."

Because Saladin stood unmoving. He remembers staring out the window at flurries of snow for what felt like a very long time but could only have been a few minutes. He remembers tracing the outlines of neighboring peaks across the glass with the edge of his knuckle. He remembers the act of remembering: once upon a time, he'd taught their names to Zavala, as their names had been taught to him.

"Saladin," his Ghost said again, and Saladin remembers moving. He remembers clutching his radio and rallying survivors—those strong enough to make the journey—to the Iron Temple.

Saladin remembers all this and more whenever the Crow challenges him on his cowardice during the Red War. He wants to break the young Guardian's back to teach him a lesson about what it's like to feel helpless, but something stops him.

He remembers hearing stories about the Crow's life on the Shore before he arrived at the Tower, and does not raise a hand against him.

<|endoftext|>

Iron Forerunner Strides

IV.

Saladin remembers the simple pleasure of sharing a meal with friends. He remembers Radegast hanging the deer upside down by its hind legs, and how swiftly Perun used her knife to skin it.

He remembers Jolder tending the fire with wood cut by her favorite axe: a mighty thing fashioned from steel and embellished with engravings of laughing wolves. It had been a gift from a blacksmith whose son Jolder effortlessly plucked out of the frozen river several winters before.

"Putting an arrow through its heart is the easiest part," she'd teased him. "Now you get to sit back and watch the rest of us do the real work."

Saladin remembers helping anyway, using Jolder's axe to section off a flat piece of juniper to smoke the meat. He remembers the sound and smell of bubbling fat, and how rich the drippings had tasted when he soaked them in bread.

He remembers Radegast asking him to sing the song taught to them by the people of the blacksmith's village, but agreeing only when Jolder and Perun promised to join in. Their voices rose like wolves in the night and were so raw by morning that none of them could speak.

Saladin remembers all this and more when Zavala tells him Amanda has taken the Crow out to drink in the City's streets. He wonders what song they'll sing, if it's anything like the one he's heard everyone humming lately—even though he hasn't tried it himself.

<|endoftext|>

Iron Forerunner Cloak

V.

Saladin remembers the first time he met Zavala. He remembers thinking that the Awoken had regal bearing like the stags he once hunted on the Steppes. His shoulders were broad, and his chin held high. When he moved, he did so with the strength and purposeful deliberation of someone with the power to determine his own place in the world.

"You'll never have a son," his Ghost had said, "but it isn't too late for you to take an apprentice."

Saladin remembers their sparring matches. He remembers how Zavala always got back on his feet, no matter how many times Saladin put him down. He remembers refusing to offer the younger Lightbearer a hand up. Until the day Zavala finally bested him in combat.

He remembers lying flat on his back, left shoulder dislocated and ribs shattered, a strange pressure on his chest that made it difficult to breathe.

"Finish it," Saladin had commanded because that was the way of things. His Ghost would revive him.

Saying nothing, Zavala hauled him to his feet instead.

Saladin remembers all this and more when his former apprentice calls him into his office and tells him about the face behind the Crow's mask. Zavala says he knows that Saladin doesn't like secrets; that it's unfair to ask him to keep one of this magnitude, but there will come a time when the Crow needs someone—the way Zavala needed Saladin.

"You never needed anyone," Saladin insists.

Zavala only smiles.

<|endoftext|>

Flowing Cowl (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes and gaze at the heavens, seeking an answer to your question.

A searing marble dominates an empty, colorless sky in a world full of L I G H T.

The glare throws a shadow across your vision like paint on canvas.

You feel every particle of your face catch fire as your sight burns away.

The heat persists, though you can no longer see.

You know there is nothing to see, anyway.

You hear nothing over the roar of the wind.

Your vision gradually returns…

Something grips your hands, desperately shaking them.

Your soul is weary.

Your feet find purchase in shifting sands.

Your cloak billows in the wind, yet something clings to it, weighing it down.

<|endoftext|>

Flowing Grips (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes and gaze at your hands, seeking an answer to your question.

Searing glow from a tyrant light above you annihilates all shadow from the plain of sand you stand upon in a world full of L I G H T.

The last thing you perceive is a blazing outline of alabaster fingers gripping your wrist in a tight fist, before photokeratitis takes your sight.

The roar of the wind fills your ears.

Whatever has seized you is shaking you. You perceive shouting over the rush of air, but you can't make out the words. You lean closer to your hands, to whatever's clasping them, shaking them.

The shouting grows eager.

You can smell it now; whatever has seized you. Ancient. Rotting. Powerful.

Its grip is strong—as strong as yours, the heat of the Light coursing through it.

It can smell the Light on you, too. It knows you are just like it.

It has lived forever. A gift from your shared parent. Forever is too long.

You think you know what it's saying now.

It begs for death.

Your vision gradually returns…

A harsh glare blooms from the heavens above.

Your soul is weary.

Your feet find purchase in shifting sands.

Your cloak billows in the wind, yet something clings to it, weighing it down.

<|endoftext|>

Flowing Vest (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes and gaze upon your weary soul, seeking an answer to your question.

You don't recognize what you see, here in this world full of L I G H T.

It looks different from what you remember, but you can't remember what that was.

You remember the Cosmodrome. You remember your many lives since then.

But were they really you?

Because you died. You die. All the time.

How do you know that's not a whole new Hunter climbing out of that crater?

What if those other Hunters, those other you, are still dead?

Do you care? Do they?

Your vision gradually returns…

A harsh glare blooms from the heavens above.

Something grips your hands, desperately shaking them.

Your feet find purchase in shifting sands.

Your cloak billows in the wind, yet something clings to it, weighing it down.

<|endoftext|>

Flowing Boots (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes and gaze down at your feet, seeking an answer to your question.

You see that your boots have found purchase in a plain of shifting sands that burns white hot as it reflects scalding light from the heavens in this world full of L I G H T.

Staring directly at the ground, you avoid the worst of a bout of photokeratitis. The wind roars around you.

The shifting sand is all you see.

As you continue to stare, it occurs to you that the Tower might look similar if you stood still for long enough. And your boots, sheathed as they are in a thin veneer of Light, would stay pristine.

You smell a rotting stench.

A harsh glare blooms from the heavens above.

Something grips your hands, desperately shaking them.

Your soul is weary.

Your cloak billows in the wind, yet something clings to it, weighing it down.

<|endoftext|>

Cloak Judgment (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes and gaze at your cloak, seeking an answer to your question.

It billows around you furiously, buffeted by roaring wind in a world full of L I G H T.

You see your Ghost clinging to it for dear life with bits of his shell.

"I thought you would never look back here!" Ghost shouts into your mind. "I've launched a battery of spectral scans off our position—what we're experiencing is real!"

WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO BE REAL

"Or as close to real as these… beings can conjure!"

THAT WORD DOES NOT DESCRIBE US WELL. WE ARE SO MUCH MORE THAN THAT. AND LESS.

"The armor you found in ontological space—it's giving off the same energy signature I picked up when you asked the Nine about the nature of the Dark!"

Your Ghost grips tighter as the wind whips your cloak, rippling it like a kite.

"I think that question produced an ontological effect—one that hasn't fully resolved!"

THE LIGHT DESTROYS. GUARDIANS DESTROY. BUT GHOSTS REBUILD. THEY ARE A TANGENTIAL EXPRESSION WITHIN THE COMMON EQUATION.

"They're still trying to answer the question!"

A harsh glare blooms from the heavens above.

Something grips your hands, desperately shaking them.

Your soul is weary.

Your feet find purchase in shifting sands.

<|endoftext|>

Cloak Relentless

Don't barter.
I'm not here to negotiate.
just don't ask who or why
W H Y N O T
EACH GUESS COMES WITH A PRICE
We've sent one other.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Mask

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-01-01 // MERCURY

Flames roll up the front windscreen of a classic AFv2 Octavian  on its entry to Mercury's thin atmosphere. Aisha has done this jump hundreds of times. Feet propped up on the console, she allows autopilot to carry her in to the Lighthouse. 

"We shouldn't just leave her behind," a woman says over the comms. Aisha motions with one finger to her Ghost, who opens an audio channel back to her fireteam member Shayura's jumpship. 

"Not our call, Shay. Agree or disagree, we're a united front," Aisha replies. 

"Then act like it!" Shayura fires back. 

Aisha folds her hands behind her head and rolls her eyes toward the top of her cockpit, venting her frustration with a prolonged sigh. 

"It's Sloane's choice." They've had this conversation too many times now. "You know how she is. If she's declining evac, there's no force in the system that'll uproot her. Stay, go, it's her choice." 

"Eight seconds until we're in transmat range," Aisha's Ghost interrupts, trying to cut the tension. He indicates the directional telemetry on the console with a flick of his monocular blue eye. She gently pushes the Ghost out of her face with a brush of her fingers. 

"Leaders make mistakes." Shayura's voice crackles over the comms as the fire of reentry clears from Aisha's windscreen, revealing the sandy geometric mottling of Mercury's surface. 

"We're in transmat range," Aisha's Ghost chirps. She waves her hand at him dismissively. 

"Zavala doesn't see it. He's trying to do the work of two Vanguard leaders right now. I d—" Shay's words are cut off as Aisha's body discorporates into a whirling matrix of light and energy. 

Aisha rematerializes within the exterior courtyard of the Lighthouse. Her Exo companion Reed-7 is already waiting, arms crossed. 

"—believe for a minute that's all we could've done!" Shayura finishes as she transmats in an electrical blast. She is incandescent with anger, waves of golden fire lapping at the sides of her face. 

"Sloane made her choice!" Aisha shouts, following Reed toward the Lighthouse with as much heated intensity as Shayura. "The commander asked her to fall back and she didn't! Don't pin this on him!" 

Shayura pivots to stare at Aisha; the fire building around her discharges in an upward blast. "If he wants to lead, he should be willing to take criticism for his decisions!" 

"Hey!" is all Reed-7 needs to say. The bright red Exo shifts his posture awkwardly but stands his ground. Aisha and Shayura are both silenced by the clap of his rebuke. 

Reed lifts a hand to the back of his neck. "Can we do this later? Please?" Shayura and Aisha afford each other a brief, tempered look. Shayura puts down her conversational weapons and draws her Sword. She points it at a group of Guardians across the windswept courtyard outside of the Lighthouse. 

"Fine," Aisha agrees, reluctantly. Anything to end this conversation.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Grasps

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-01-03 // BAZAAR, THE TOWER, LAST CITY

Within the tented enclosure of their tower-based enclave, Shayura and Aisha sit on crimson, vermillion, and gold cushions scattered around a circular table, the setting sun burning bright at their backs through icy-encrusted trellis. A handful of colorful decorations for the Festival of the Lost hang overhead, with more being set up outside. An anchor of community in the wake of a tumultuous time. 

"How's today feeling?" Aisha asks, sitting forward with her elbows on her knees. Shayura doesn't answer. 

Aisha watches Reed-7 stand in line at a food kiosk across the way. "Did you talk to Ikora yet?" she tries again. The Warlock rakes her fingers through her hair and sighs, slouching down so that her forehead rests against the tabletop. 

"No," Shayura finally responds. "I will. I'm sorry." 

"Hey, no," Aisha says, scooting over enough so that she can put a reassuring hand on Shayura's shoulder. "Don't. We've all been through a lot. I should've paid attention to how hurt you were before we went into the match. I'm sorry we fought; I'm sorry I yelled at you." 

Shayura regards Aisha from the corner of her eye. She turns away and lets her hair fall like a curtain to hide her face. "Can Guardians be unfit for duty?" Shayura wonders, her voice muffled by the table. 

Aisha isn't sure how to respond. "I mean…"

"I don't know if I'm okay," Shayura admits without lifting her head. Aisha leans in and puts an arm around her friend's shoulders. 

"It's okay not to be okay," Aisha says. "That's why you should talk to Ikora. She knows. She understands." 

Shayura is quiet again. Aisha peeks over the arch of Shayura's back and spots Reed carrying a collection of steaming mugs in his large hands. 

"Drinks," Reed says, setting down the mugs on the table. Aisha offers Reed a supportive but strained smile in return. "Careful," Reed notes as she reaches out for a mug, "they're hot." 

"There's cinnamon in yours," he says to Shayura. She gives him a thumbs-up without lifting her head off the table. Aisha offers Reed a wordless look of concern and shakes her head. Their talk had not gone well while he was away. 

"I know you're upset about Sloane," Reed says. "But you know the commander's done all he can. We've done all we can. Don't blame yourself for—"

"Thanks," Shayura says without looking up. She sits up enough to grab her mug with two hands and drags the piping hot cider over to herself. She slouches over the mug, breathing in the aroma of cinnamon, honey, apples, and cloves. Her eyes drift shut and, for a moment, she seems more herself. 

Aisha and Reed take a moment to breathe. Give Shayura time to breathe. "I know," Shayura finally says in a small, guilty voice. "I'm sorry." It's hard to tell if she's talking about Sloane, or about her behavior in general. 

"You don't need to apologize to us," Reed says with a look to Aisha, who nods back in support and affirmation. "You should apologize to Leitka and his Ghost." 

"It was Titan," Shayura finally explains without looking up from her mug. Reed and Aisha look at each other, but neither interrupts. They let Shayura reach that point at her own pace. "I was back on Titan. Like when we were Lightless, surrounded by Hive. There was this Knight… no matter how many times I killed him, he kept coming back. I should've died out there." 

"But you didn't," Aisha says, reaching out across the table to take Shayura's hand, giving it a reassuring squeeze. "We got our Light back, and—"

"What happens when the Darkness closes in?" Shayura asks, though she knows neither Reed nor Aisha have the answer. "Will she be Lightless again? Alone?" 

Reed and Aisha share a look, and the Exo reaches across the table, laying one of his large hands atop Shayura's hand that Aisha holds. Reed's silence is stability, and Aisha smiles across the small distance to him in thanks. The three fireteam members are all the family they have, and in this moment of weakness, Aisha has to hope that family is enough to make it through the darkness. 

Or, failing that, enough to make the journey worth taking.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Vest

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-01-02 // TRIALS ARENA, THE LIGHTHOUSE, MERCURY

A seething stream of automatic weapons fire ricochets off of the vibrant purple dome protecting Reed-7 and Aisha. There are only two Guardians left on the opposing team; the remains of the third are scattered, smoking and sizzling. 

"Aisha?" Reed asks in concern. Flames form between Aisha's knuckles as his barrier begins to destabilize. She has the better plan. 

The opposing Guardian pauses to reload from behind cover, and Aisha boosts straight up. Remnants of the collapsing barrier swirl around her ankles, caught on the thermal updraft. By the time the opposing Guardian has noticed, both of Aisha's hands glow like the sun. A dozen knives made from condensed plasma tear through him and everything in his vicinity, leaving molten holes in their wake. 

The Guardian collapses in a heap; Aisha lands nearby, cloak fluttering around her. Reed-7 gives her a wearied thumbs-up. 

"Did you see Shay while you were up there?" Reed asks. 

"No. She's probably playing tag with the one that keeps going invisible." Aisha says, brushing ash off of her gloves. "Let's go find her and finish this up." 

A plume of atomic fire rises up over a nearby block of Vex design, as if in direct response to Aisha. The Lighthouse gives off a soft tone. The match is over; they won. 

A sudden scream spurs Aisha and Reed into action. The pair navigate the familiar Vex architecture quickly, but two more agonized screams ring out in the time it takes to traverse the arena. When they reach the source of the noise, Aisha sees Shayura impaling another Guardian through the faceplate of his helmet with her Sword. His Ghost shrieks in frustration, trying desperately to get between Shayura and his Guardian. 

"Shay?" Aisha asks in confusion, but Shayura's only response is to rip her Sword out of the dead Guardian's head. Reed hangs back in stunned silence. 

Aisha watches until the other Guardian draws breath once more, but before he can finish shouting a plea to Shayura, the Warlock cuts off his arm in one stroke and cleaves through the top of his helmet in a second. 

"Shay, no!" Aisha yells, running up to her friend. She wraps her arms around Shayura's midsection. Shayura screams like a frightened animal, lashing out with a swift slash of her Sword in the direction of the Guardian's corpse. 

"Shayura! The match is over!" Reed shouts, snapping back to reality. "The match is over!" 

Shayura screams as her fireteam members pull her back, voice cracking in a feral cry as flames race down her arms and swirl along the length of her blood-slicked Sword. 

"No! No! Stop! No!" Shayura howls, fighting against the restraints of her comrades. Aisha grabs at Shayura's wrist, trying to keep her from swinging her Sword again. 

"Shay," Aisha tries to get through to her. "Shay!" 

Shayura screams an endless wail into the scalding Mercurian sky.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Strides

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-01-04 // TENEMENT BUILDING ROOFTOP, PEREGRINE DISTRICT, LAST CITY

The Traveler hangs like a moon over the Last City, radiating bands of sapphire light from within its cracked shell. Thousands have gathered on rooftops, crowded streets, filled balconies. They look up to the sky, staring at a spectacle never before seen and perhaps never to be witnessed again. From their spot on a terrace, the Hunter Aisha and her Awoken Warlock companion Shayura bear witness to the turn of the age. 

"Do you remember Chicago? " Aisha asks, unable to pry her eyes away from the Traveler's silhouette. Shayura's response is a non-verbal acknowledgement. "I thought we were gonna die in the Crypts," Aisha continues. 

Light ripples from the Traveler, washing over the pair like foaming tides from far distant shores. Aisha closes her eyes. "I remember… we all blamed the Traveler." She wishes she felt more as the Light touches her face. She wishes she felt anything. "For bringing us back, for putting guns in our hands, for cursing us to die again and again." 

Shayura says nothing in return, and for the moment, Aisha does not lament that. The silence allows her to contemplate her own emptiness, her own disaffected sense of belonging to a cosmic force that doesn't understand her, nor she it. But as she opens her eyes, it is still in wonderment. The significance of the moment, what it means for the people of the City, can't be understated. Even if the long-term ramifications are clouded in doubt. 

"I remember," Shayura finally replies. Aisha looks at her, surprised to see Shayura's focus not on the Traveler but down on the street. "I never forgot how abandoned we felt," Shayura adds, a tightness in her voice. 

Aisha's attention is drawn back to the Traveler as it throbs like a beating heart and erupts into a blinding flash of light. Aisha braces, as if for an incoming attack, but shudders when she feels the wave of Light crash against and roll past her. When it fades, Aisha sees the impossible. The Traveler, once shattered by its exertion to destroy Ghaul, is now whole. 

The City rises up in a riotous cheer; Aisha turns to Shayura, but she is gone. A moment of panic clutches at her heart. Aisha frantically looks around until she spies Shayura retreating into the jubilant crowd. Aisha watches her go, afraid that she understands what Shayura is feeling: hollow disaffection.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Cloak

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-01-05 // SIMULATED LIGHTHOUSE, THE TOWER, LAST CITY

"There's still snow in the cockpit of my jumpship," Aisha says after she appears in a crackling wave of latticework from the subordinate Vex conflux now running simulations of the Lighthouse from the safety of the Tower. 

"Is that why you're late?" Reed-7 asks, and Aisha's chest tightens. 

She feigns a smile and spreads her hands, playing off her nervousness. "And Shayura isn't?" she jabs back. 

"She's coming." Reed says, and then more pointedly asks, "How long did you stick around the Stranger's camp after we left?" Aisha looks away, as if to contemplate the graphical fidelity of the Lighthouse, jaw set and shoulders tense. 

"Couple hours," she says quietly. "I moved around. House of Salvation was putting down stakes out near some Vex ruins; wanted to make sure they didn't stick." Feeling anxious, she presses two fingers to her neck, transmatting her helmet around her head in a flash of light. 

Reed snorts and nods. "This is weird, right?" He drops the topic of Europa. Aisha isn't sure what he's on about. "The simulation. Saint's little… combat closet. It feels real," he continues. 

"It is real. I mean, we are. The space is a… I don't know, magic? But me and you? The Guardians? We're all us." Aisha explains with a motion around herself. "The dangers may be simulated, but that doesn't make the effects any less real. Saint wouldn't have it any other way. You didn't go into the Infinite Forest, did you?" 

 "Hell no," Reed quickly admits. "Couldn't pay me enough to. Can't stand the Vex," he adds with a shudder. "You know how you are with spiders? That's me with the Vex. Don't know why, don't care." 

Aisha looks down at one of her hands, fingers curling against her palm. She closes her eyes, considers Reed, and then gathers up the confidence to make a confession as Shayura manifests into the simulated space mid-stride. She walks straight past Reed and Aisha toward the Lighthouse. "Come on." 

Shayura's brusque entrance elicits a concerned look between Reed and Aisha, but they say nothing more on the matter. 

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-02-05 // SIMULATED TRIALS ARENA, SIMULATED LIGHTHOUSE

"Where's Shayura?" Reed asks as he reloads his Scout Rifle mid-match. Aisha points down a corridor with two fingers. 

"She's been after that other Awoken Warlock since we started the match. I think she followed him that way," Aisha says, already breaking into a jog. "It's three on one, c'mon." 

When they finally find Shayura, she's standing over a still-living Awoken Guardian whose helmet has been broken, revealing one of his eyes. He stares up at her, at her fire-shrouded Sword. Aisha and Reed train their firearms, prepared to back Shayura up if she misses the finishing blow for the match. Reed starts to lower his Auto Rifle, and Aisha feels his palpable confusion as she notices Shayura's sight line isn't aimed down at the Guardian; it's aimed up at his Ghost. 

"Shay?" Aisha asks, a nervous tremor in her voice. 

Shayura lashes out, striking the Ghost with her Sword and knocking it to the ground. The Guardian exhales a scream of plight, and Shayura quickly draws her Sidearm and plants a round in his forehead. The Ghost chirps, squawks. It is only damaged. Shayura holsters her Sidearm again. 

"Shay!" Reed shouts, dropping his Scout Rifle and rushes over to her. This time, though, Shayura expels a blast of force from her palm that knocks Reed onto his back. Aisha's heart races. She looks back at Reed, then Shayura. Fear and doubt take control. Aisha closes her eyes and chooses the unthinkable. 

Blue-black ice crusts over Shayura's legs, snuffs out her Praxic fire, and freezes her Sword arm solid. Feather-ice bristles off of her body along with waves of visible cold. Waves of cold radiate outward from one of Aisha's extended hands; feathery shards of crystalline growths bristle off of her gauntlet. She had no choice. 

Aisha couldn't understand in that moment what was going through Shayura's mind, or how much of a betrayal this moment was. 

But in time, Aisha hoped, her friends would come to understand and forgive her.

<|endoftext|>

Helm of the Ace-Defiant

When his eyes finally opened, Jarus was staring at a fuzzy silhouette of something giant. The giant spoke. "Welcome home," it rumbled. Jarus blinked rapidly. The room began to come into focus, shining like a temple. The giant spoke again.  

"My child, there is nothing to fear. I have rescued you. Welcome to my empire." The feeling returned to Jarus' limbs. He was restrained. And this creature now towered over him. He was staring into the face of death. "Fear not, my warrior-to-be."  

Jarus blinked slowly. What about the other pilots? His battalion? Did they escape?  

"You, the last star-pilot of the Sindû, will be my Ace-Defiant." 

It was not a choice.

<|endoftext|>

Grips of the Ace-Defiant

With a flourish, Emperor Calus lifted a hand. "My Star, a gift for you." The theater had begun. 

The hangar door opened slowly, and behind it a row of purple banners dropped, one after another. As each banner snapped into place, a Psion fell to hands and knees, head bowed low. 

Jarus's shoulder disappeared in the emperor's hand. "Come, let us open your gift." The two walked past the kneeling warriors. "I have named it for you," Calus crooned. "I call it God's Will." 

Jarus's chest fluttered. The ship was beautiful. A drum sounded. A Cabal emerged, delicately carrying armor, holding it as if it would break. Piece by piece it was placed on the floor in front of Jarus. 

The weight on his shoulder lifted. "This is yours. When you take it, you are mine." Calus left. His procession followed. Only God's Will and Jarus remained.

<|endoftext|>

Vest of the Ace-Defiant

Shayotet's ship lay smashed and burning on the ground. A few meters away, Shayotet himself crawled from a pod. Jarus jumped lightly from his own ship, sent it rocketing back into low orbit with a tap to his nav-gauntlet. God's Will had done its part. Now Jarus must finish him. 

Jarus raised a pistol, another of Calus's gifts, and emptied its clip. Shayotet heaved and jerked as black pressure gel spouted from his armor, but he did not fall. He roared—blood and saliva spattered the ground—and charged. Jarus holstered the pistols. 

He waited until Shayotet was nearly on top of him before activating the energy blade. A gargling roar, a spray of pressure gel, and it was over. 

Jarus' fingers trembled as he summoned God's Will again. In the cockpit, Calus' face appeared. "My heart swells with pride. This drink is in your honor."

<|endoftext|>

Boots of the Ace-Defiant

"Jarus, you simply are wrong." 
"We will agree to disagree, my lord." 
"Your palate simply lacks the sophistication to detect the notes in your world's drink!" 
"I am Sindû. It was crafted for my palate, my lord." 
"But you simply do not taste all of this. It's impossible." 
"I do not currently taste anything, my lord." 
"Well, we must fix that." 

In the silence of space, a nearby explosion rocked God's Will. Jarus narrowed his eyes. "My lord, I have an issue to tend to." 

"I shall save your drink for you." The cockpit monitor flickered from Calus's face to a radar.  Small red triangles blinked onscreen as an alarm took up its shrill cry. Jarus pulled a visor down in front of him and fired the ship's thrusters.

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Cloak

Jarus left God's Will behind for his final mission. He needed a ship big enough to carry his fellow Shadows to Ghaul, and with enough internal shielding and anti-impact padding to ensure the plan they had developed would succeed. 

Under Jarus's control, the ship dodged, weaved, and carved a path through the Red Legion. His fingers flipped switches, rapidly changing the displays on the monitors surrounding the cockpit. In the hold, the Shadows waited. Jarus aligned the ship's trajectory toward the Dominus' ship. The plan was simple. 

"My dear Jarus," the emperor had said. "We must deliver the Shadows to the Dominus at any cost." Jarus knew what this meant. For him, the trip was one-way. But that was all right, so long as Ghaul's was, too.

<|endoftext|>

Mask of the Emperor's Agent

I often think of what it would be like to see you again—how you might look and what you might say. I imagine different scenarios where you walk around a corner and there I am, magnificent and in control. I don't see you at first, and you hesitate. Is this a confrontation you want to have? 

Of course, your curiosity gets the better of you. Our eyes meet. Neither of us say anything, because we both know what's at stake. This could be the end of an empire.

<|endoftext|>

Gloves of the Emperor's Agent

When you left me on the Leviathan, you left me with nothing. I hope you understand things are different now. I've been tested, and I have emerged from the other side. 

You always spoke of how adversity shaped the person you are, how it made you stronger. I see the truth of that now in a way that before I never could. I want you to see what I have learned. I want you to see what adversity has allowed me to become.

<|endoftext|>

Vest of the Emperor's Agent

I know that you have gone to the Sol system. I'm writing because I will be there soon as well. Perhaps a reunion is in order? 

My agents have left ahead of me to prepare for my arrival.  I like to establish good relationships with the locals. I know it may surprise you, but one of the ways in which I have grown is my attitude towards the lesser species. I've come to believe that there is a place for all creatures in my empire. The end will be so much more interesting if we face it together.

<|endoftext|>

Boots of the Emperor's Agent

You've gone to great lengths to hide your movements. I know, because I've been tracking you, not out of any kind of obsession; I just need to know what you're doing. It might affect my plans. 

But I'm curious to know—are you hiding because of me? Is there some reason you don't want me to see you? I'm not upset about it, but you should know—I'm not hiding from you. If you want to understand what I'm doing, you need but look.

<|endoftext|>

Cloak of the Emperor's Agent

Ghaul was a masterful conspirator. He spent his whole life dedicated to a higher purpose. Few survive the gladiator pits. Even fewer rise to the rank of Primus. It is remarkable that a discarded runt managed to do both, all the while living a double life. 

It was only at the very end that I even began to suspect him. He possessed an absolute, single-minded dedication to his life of deceit. I see the same cunning in you, my dear Hunter.

<|endoftext|>

Mask of Feltroc

Feltroc, the Skull-Piercer, wore this last. A gun in her hands was a guarantee of victory. Whispers that my Shadows could kill from anywhere, as quickly as a spoken word, drew from her deeds.

There is a tribe among Guardians with similar penchants for surgical strikes, is there not? Perhaps one of them could take her place.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Grips of Feltroc

The day the Shadows died, Feltroc sat in a perch high above the fighting, among a sea of glittering rounds. There was a Red Legion corpse for each shell on the engineering deck of Ghaul's ship below. When everything in her field of vision was dead, she took aim at the enemy's airborne rounds, the ones meant for the Shadows still in the fight. She had hit several by the time the Red Legion managed to fill the air shaft around her with a neurotoxin.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Vest of Feltroc

As a Psion, Feltroc possessed the uncanny ability to slow her breathing and steady her motion with a layer of telekinetic manipulation. Before her passing, she had long sought a seat on my Psion Council, to help maintain the nightmare realm I reserve for prisoners and punishing wayward Loyalists. But she proved to be too valuable an asset in the field.

The life of a Shadow is sometimes a life of disappointment, and it pains me to say so. A burden I will carry until the end comes.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Boots of Feltroc

As with the Fulminator after her, I gifted Feltroc with a second skin—a battle harness that allowed her to stride with the physical dimensions of the average bipedal Loyalist. I had intended it to be an asset to her, a means to faster preparation with her armory of weapons, a place to store additional tools, and allow her to enter combat with the ergonomics of a "standard" soldier.

She told me she preferred it because it gave her enemies a fair shot at her head. I enjoyed her company immensely.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Cloak of Feltroc

Feltroc pitied your kind for your reliance on the Light. Prove her wrong. Show this universe you can open your mind and accept new horizons, as she did. Your predecessors have sought to understand other sources of power, to control them. None have embraced them like I have. Like you could.

There is an entire spectrum of power left untapped that your Light prevents you from realizing.

When the time comes, seek me out. I will teach you to grow fat from strength.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Equitis Shade Cowl

The Cabal I knew commanded ships that spoke to our affluence and cultivation, forged from the crucible of war so that we might never need to fight again.

But what did the Red Legion deploy in place of the glossy, magnificent fleets that I remember? Warships. Carriers. Interceptor squadrons. Harvesters. The Almighty. Blunt and base tools of war, like the soldiers who use them.

The Cabal fleet that I remember shocked with its allure and refinement. They would never threaten. Our power was such that our threats were unspoken. And always present.

A Shadow of your Guardian-tribe, with your raw instincts and reflexes, would be a perfect navigator of these vessels. You'll guide them like blades past the throat of my homeworld's planetary defense force.

My homeworld... I can't remember its name. Perhaps I'll give it a new one.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Equitis Shade Grips

They say the Cabal are not a subtle people. We have fallen so far.

The Cabal I knew were better. We understood that there is power in subtlety.

And that's what it'll take to recover the throne at the center of my homeworld. The seat meant for me.

Open war is for savages. Pit fighters. The Red Legion. There shall be a day, long before the end comes, when that throne is mine again.

And a Shadow of your Guardian-tribe would be the ideal instrument of assassination that will take it for me.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Equitis Shade Rig

The Cabal I knew treasured knowledge above all things. Of course they did. I was their model.

We kept vaults of artifacts and texts in the great athenaeum worlds spread across the mother system.

Texts about the exalted history of the Empire, and its eclectic people.

Texts about the vast ennead, trapped and reaching out.

Texts about the feats of will made possible by Light and Traveler-lore. 

Texts about… well, theorizing about the dark. So little is written, save for that which was recorded from the dreams of worms.

The vaults housed technology and weapons gifted from countless indoctrinated worlds. And judging from their absence in this Red War, Dominus Ghaul's Legion has either forgotten or lost them all. The athenaeum worlds required learned guides to navigate: guides loyal to me. I've not heard from them in a very long time.

A Shadow of your Guardian-tribe would be the ideal treasure hunter to plunder those repositories and take from the false empire the secrets that rightfully belong to me.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Equitis Shade Boots

The Cabal I knew valued marksmanship. In this way, and only in this way, do the Red Legion resemble my people. But the elegant, precision weapons of the past? Gone, save for the limited Psion arsenals. Replaced by Red Legion bluster.

Even the weapons and technology left for my Loyalists aboard the Leviathan are Legion issue and standard. The Cabal have lost so much in my exile. Only when I have reclaimed the athenaeum worlds in the mother system will we see the likes of rightful, classical Cabal weaponry again.

Until such a time comes, and I pray that it comes before the end, a Shadow of your Guardian-tribe would be the ideal, civilized sharpshooter to fight the false Empire in the place of true Cabal.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Equitis Shade Cloak

You've shown the Red Legion you fly my banner.

I know that when the time is right, I won't have to ask. You're on my side.

I see it when you relieve our foes of their skulls. When you embed those tiny, edged trinkets into their hearts. When you pierce them with your Light. And it is captivating.

But Earth casts no Shadow. Not yet.

When you're ready, you will be magnificent. A Guardian of Guardians. Shadow of Shadows.

I reserve the right to be last when the end comes, and for that, I need you with me.

You're so close.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Mask of the Great Hunt

The Ahamkara remain an issue. There's still so much we can learn from them but what they've done to Venus… no two Guardians see the same thing. Consultants from the War Cult have been brought in to gauge disagreements over timelines of events. One of our Warlocks stared into the paracausal phenomenon that formed over the Ishtar Academy and shot himself. (He is NOT an authorized Thanatonaut). Luckily, his Ghost hid from him beforehand. We managed to get him back. He has no lingering physical wounds, but he will need time to recover.

We thought we were gods who had found an opportunity for more power. A silly notion to the likes of you and me, but the average Guardian has not been threatened like this. The Titans are beside themselves.

We will take extreme measures. We must. But these creatures have such means… They will flee. Far and wide. Perhaps all the way to you.

Mara, I implore you. If you hold your people as dearly as you say you do, you will end them on sight.

—Eris Morn

<|endoftext|>

Grips of the Great Hunt

Venus. A year into the Great Hunt.

Eris and Zavala watched as Shaxx sat with the dying Ahamkara, a hand on its snout.

"Is he gloating?" she asked.

"I think he is too pragmatic to gloat." Zavala said.

"Mourning, then."

"Perhaps."

The Ahamkara twitched, its eyes rolled up into its head. The biochemical glow just beneath its skin grew harsh. Zavala and Eris raised their hands against the increasing glare.

Then the corpse exploded. Dirt showered the Guardians like dusty rain on a clear day.

Shaxx sat silently in the resulting crater, covered in a sheet of green fire.

Zavala and Eris opened their mouths to speak, but Shaxx interrupted them.

"Shh," he said, as the flame quietly roared.

They could all hear a disembodied whisper. But they were used to that by now.

<|endoftext|>

Vest of the Great Hunt

Venus. The Great Hunt.

The Ahamkara refused to die. For a day, Wei-Ning had been fighting it to a standstill with her bare hands, cratering it repeatedly into the ground. Eris had seen wish-dragons drive Titans mad by refusing to fall to brute strength. But Eris was pretty sure Wei-Ning was already insane.

"Confession time," the Titan said, as she hammered punches into the Ahamkara's tentacled face. "I've been wishing this fight would go on forever."

Eris balked. "Please stop, you psychopath. We have six others to handle!"

"No, no. We want this. Trust me," Wei-Ning said.

An hour later, six shapes emerged from the Venusian foliage. Ahamkara. Their compatriot, whom Wei-Ning continued to pound into the ground, was pulsating, growing stronger. Feeding. The others had come to feast at the same table.

Eris pulled her Arc Blade from the air and Blinked.

When the Hunter and the Titan finished their hunt, Eris thought she heard Wei-Ning whisper.

"Did you say something?"

"I was about to ask you."

"Huh."

<|endoftext|>

Strides of the Great Hunt

Eris and Ikora stood over a graveyard of whispering bones.

An hour ago, this was a vibrant army of Ahamkara.

"What did they offer you?" said Eris. Her stare reached for a mile in front of them. So did the grave of bones.

"The same as you, I'm sure," Ikora stood buoyed by a gentle flow of Light, above the whispering bones. It was easier to concentrate up here.

"Everything they say is true," said Eris.

Ikora looked down at her sharply. "Sentiment like that leads to morbid places," she cautioned.

"Yes," came the reply.

"If you guide your Light north, I'll take the south. This will be quick—"

"I think they showed me my life before my Ghost."

"Eris. Focus."

"Yes."

Together, the Guardians summoned a storm of Light that consumed the bones around them. They ignored the whispers, but the voices grew louder, harsher as the maelstrom progressed. Soon, they couldn't tell the difference between the whispers and the storm.

<|endoftext|>

Cloak of the Great Hunt

The Great Disaster.

Years after the Hunt.

They are dead. Wei Ning. Eriana-3. Toland. Sai Mota. Omar. Vell Tarlowe.

Guardians live lives of loss. Everything around us inevitably turns to dust. When we come together, it's to war. Against enemies of humanity. Against each other.

One of our few comforts is the knowledge that our peers will be there tomorrow. For good or ill. My fireteam has been robbed of that.

I am lost in these lunar tunnels. Out of ammo. Short on Light. I am out of moves, save one. I clutch an Ahamkara bone in one hand, and my dead Ghost in the other. I hear a whisper.

My vision is gone. My face itches from the viscous flow from my eyes.

Though I can't see, I find that I suddenly know the way out.

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Mask

The Crown of Sorrow came from one of my Athenaeum worlds, a Hive repository.

It was one of you who helped me find it. One among your Hunter-tribe, of the Red War lineage. You may be younger than the Old Russians, but you have virility.

A whole network of library worlds just like that one has been lost to me and my Empire. It's been too long.

I'll call on you, one day, to help me reclaim them. Before the end comes.

—Emperor Calus

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Grips

You've helped me free the Crown of Sorrow from Gahlran's poor, decayed mind.

My jowls are shivering, and though you are not here, I bellow for you.

Such is my adoration for your magnificent act.

But now to send the Psions into the depth of the Crown. Analyze it for additional traps.

You've worn Hive armor before. The hides of both the Taken King and his son.

Those did not whisper, did not sap your will.

This Crown was willing to share power, where the armor of the King left nothing real behind for you to take. Because the King takes.

The Crown of Sorrow is more charitable. Giving. TOO giving. Because what it gives is infection. Gahlran thought he could overcome it. You saw the result.

I thank you for freeing him. He's in a better place now. A place we're all going, when the black edge closes in on us.

—Emperor Calus

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Vest

Thorn. The Touch of Malice. Necrochasm. There are so many weapons in the arsenal of Light that deliver payloads full of Hive words.

I can see why you all accepted the peasant man with the singsong voice. Some of you wanted to be him all along.

Him, or someone worse. Even the legendary hero with the burning gun turned out to be a charlatan.

But you all lust after pretenders.

The Hive are pretenders. Their sword logic is not something they truly believe in, though they leverage its power from time to time. If they did, they would have killed themselves long ago at the sight of you.

Stick to the Light, little Light. It's what you're good at.

True darkness lies at the black edge. Where I was reborn.

It's coming.

—Emperor Calus

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Strides

You are one of them, so you must know:

Whatever happened to that one of the Hunter-tribe who sought retribution on the Hive?

Does she not frequent your Hunter dens?

My scribes learned she was instrumental in the defeat of the Taken King, and before that, his son. By your hand.

Send her my way if you see her. Please.

I would so like to meet her.

—Emperor Calus

<|endoftext|>

Penumbral Cloak

"This Cloak is yours. For the day you ignite the spark that casts the Shadow of Earth." —Emperor Calus



THE RECENT PAST. SOMEWHERE ELSE.


I activated the mechanism that opened my chamber doors. The massive gears on either side shrieked in protest as they ground against themselves to wrench the massive, solid-plasteel gates open. It took whole minutes to complete the sequence.

A tiny, tiny man sped through the now-gaping maw of the gates on a tiny Earth machine. It took him several minutes more to reach earshot of me, leaving a billowing trail of dust in his wake. I'm afraid my chamber had not been cleaned in some time. Cleanliness meant nothing to me now. I had not entertained an audience so directly in centuries. But I was as curious about this creature as it was of me.

The miniscule man dismounted his machine and stared up. I pictured I would relish the moment when his eyes went wide at the sight of my grandeur.

But he didn't seem to care. He frowned a little. Fascinating.

"Is that you?" he asked, voice echoing upwards at me. "The real you?"

"Yes," I replied, and the metal around me rattled and shook at my speech. It was the truth. "One of me. Refreshment?"

I activated a mechanism in the floor, raising a miniscule but ornate table out of the dusty metal deck. A single, equally tiny chalice, filled to the brim with royal nectar wine, sat on its center.

"No thanks," the man said. "Last time I drank an alien something, I had a gunfight with what came outta' me."

"What can Emperor Calus do for you?" I asked him.

I pretended to stare at him. In doing so, I analyzed every fiber of his being at a spectrum level. I had always expected he was a Guardian. But there was something else. A shade of something that reminded me of the black edge. So the tiny man liked to play outside the Light.

 "I got somewhere to be, so I'll make this short. Where do you and I stand? I need these Guardians as much as you do. We gonna start fighting for territory soon?"

"The Shadows are mine," I boomed, pelting him with my voice. He winced. I wasn't angry. I didn't have it in me to be angry anymore. But he had to know.

"So that's a yes," he muttered, and flipped a jade coin into the air with a clink that echoed throughout the massive chamber.

"There isn't a sane being in this whole system," he grumbled up at the coin, then caught it.

"I'm not sure I know what you mean," I said. It was truth. Data from my spectral analysis of the peasant continued to pour in.

He stared at me. "You're crazy. Those Guardians you got working for you—they're crazy. The Vanguard's crazy."

He looked down at his coin. "I might be crazy."

He chuckled, suddenly. "I leave the system for a couple hundred years and everything goes to hell." He shook his head. "Look at you. The Cabal Emperor isn't even Cabal anymore. Right?"

"I am the last thing this system shall ever see," I replied. My scan was finished. And so was this man's welcome in my abode. I think he knew, because he turned to leave.

"You come after what's mine, and I've got friends in low places who'll tear your house down," he called back to me. I glimpsed his smile, and it was full of teeth.

I laughed as he sped away on his machine.

His friends were mine first.

<|endoftext|>

Cowl of Righteousness

Lisbon-13 was already walking away when she spoke.

"You don't trust her. I can see that."

He almost stumbled, but he quickened his pace to cover for it.

Rekkana saw so much. It was the thing that astonished him when they first met. She seemed to see right into him, to see all his flaws and failings, all the guilt and regret, and she didn't look away.

"I don't need to trust her. I trust you."

"And that's enough?"

"Always."

It was, and would be. The truth of that rested easy within him. It was the razor that cut through the chaos and ambiguity of their wild and dangerous lives. She knew what she wanted, and she wanted him by her side. It was an honor.

She lingered behind him, no doubt thinking about their mission.

"Hey, slowpoke. You coming?"

"Yes."

Lisbon-13 stopped to wait for her. He looked out at a landscape somehow outside space, terrible and yet still beautiful in its own way. Rekkana caught up to him.

"Strange, being through the looking glass."

"Yes."

Her eyes were a luminous blue. It was the first thing he'd noticed, before he understood what she could see. He wondered at the mind behind them.

He wondered what she knew about their mission that she wasn't telling him. He wondered what the ramifications of the Cryptochrons learning the truth about the Black Garden might be.

But then he remembered that none of that mattered. He didn't need to ask questions if she knew the answers.

"We should get back to Yardarm before he starts shooting bugs for fun."

<|endoftext|>

Grips of Exaltation

Lisbon-13 looked around the grotto and then at his companions. Rekkana seemed tired. It had been a rough fight, but it was more than that. She'd lost confidence somehow. That wasn't normal.

"You underestimated them," Yardarm-4 accused.

Lisbon-13 felt Rekkana's hand on his arm and said nothing.

"Yes," she said. "But it has given us perspective."

"Perspective?" Yardarm-4 didn't wait for an explanation. "What perspective is worth nearly dying for?"

Rekkana looked to Lisbon-13, and he understood. She had underestimated the Vex. Never in her darkest dreams had she foreseen the kind of resistance they'd encountered. It meant their quest had more meaning. There was a destiny in it that had somehow gone unaccounted for.

"Those defenses were insane," Lisbon-13 said, thinking of the implications. "The relays and tethers. The Angelics. The Vex really don't want us to be here. That means they consider this place a weakness."

"Yes, it's a weakness," Yardarm-4 reasoned, and there was an echo in the cave. "Perhaps it's their greatest weakness."

But it was not an echo.

Another voice said "weakness" again.

"Yes. So we must—" Rekkana started, but then Lisbon-13 raised the weapon Rekkana had bade him carry. He scanned the area.

Yardarm-4 started as if hit by a spark and raised his gun. "What is that?" He sounded rattled. "Where's it coming from?"

Rekkana backed up to them, automatically taking a defensive position. "I don't hear…" Rekkana said before falling silent.

"Those with strength enough need not consider the weaknesses of others."

<|endoftext|>

Vest of Transcendence

Their Ghosts all started chattering at once, and Lisbon-13 stepped away from his compatriots to hear his own.

"Scanning. No sign of complex life besides you three. Widening the scan parameters. I got bupkis."

"Look for any kind of transmission, or a nearby audio device," Lisbon-13 ordered. "We're getting sound without a source."

"Got it," his Ghost said, but then it wobbled in the air. "Whoa. Don't got it."

Lisbon-13 grabbed his Ghost before it could fall. In the grotto, their Light faded.

He heard Rekkana ask, "Yardarm, Lisbon, you OK?"

"I'm fine," he said. And he was. Something strange—something alarming—was happening, but Lisbon-13 felt no fear.

As the gloom faded to black, Lisbon-13 set his shoulders. Whoever—whatever—it was had spoken. It would speak again.

Lisbon-13 stood against the dark and waited to have words.

<|endoftext|>

Strides of Ascendancy

"We didn't come here for this." Lisbon-13 was convinced.

"Of course not. Who could have predicted it?" Rekkana's reply was quick. "But now, with all that's happened, does it matter what our mission was? This is so much more important."

Lisbon-13 wanted to believe that, but Rekkana didn't seem sure of herself. Her eyes were too bright. She was electric, excited but also scared. The razor he used to cut through the chaos wavered.

"And awesome. Don't forget how awesome this feels." Yardarm-4 said, oblivious of the feelings passing between them.

Lisbon-13 locked eyes with Rekkana, willing her to understand, to return to her senses. "But these things—these powers we've been given—they come from the wrong side."

Rekkana looked away. "I'm not so sure." She seemed to be staring at nothing, eyes unfocused.

"You remember on Io," Yardarm-4 blurted, stepping between them, "we were pinned down inside that shipping container with Phalanxes closing in from all sides, and you—you bastard. You ducked out a little hole in the back and made a run for it. I thought you'd left us behind."

"Never," snarled Lisbon-13, infuriated at this irrelevant interruption.

"I know," Yardarm-4 continued. "The whole box was rattling with bullets, and there were explosions, and we were shooting when we could, and suddenly, through it all, I hear you screaming. It was like a banshee wail. You came screaming back on an Interceptor—the Psion still in it. You were steering it with the Psion's head!"

"I remember," said Lisbon-13 as he tried to step around Yardarm-4, but the Titan moved with him, matching his motion.

"And you rammed it through four Phalanxes from the side," Yardarm-4 said, punching a fist into his palm. "And then, and then—you remember this, Rekkana?"

"I can't forget."

"You splashed that Interceptor across the shields of another Phalanx, and you RODE THE EXPLOSION over the top." Yardarm-4 threw his whole body into the performance of the story. He was trying to make Lisbon-13 laugh, or at least smile. "And when you hit the ground behind them, BOOM! It was the most beautiful thing I'd ever seen."

Lisbon-13 said nothing. He stopped trying to get past Yardarm-4 and simply looked at the Titan, waiting for him to get to the point.

"That's us right now. We're doing what you did. This whole universe is like that container, and the Last City, the Vanguard, the Traveler—they're all inside that box. But we just snuck out of a hole in the back. And there's that Interceptor, and there's not even a Psion in it."

Lisbon-13 narrowed his eyes.

"But here the metaphor gets a little muddy, because instead of one Interceptor, there's an Interceptor for you, a Goliath for me, and a Thresher for Rekkana. What would that fight have looked like if we'd had all their firepower on our side?"

Lisbon-13 let the question hang in the air, waiting for Rekkana to say something. But she continued to stare into space.

"Something ugly."

<|endoftext|>

Cloak of Temptation

Lisbon-13 leaned hard against the boulder and reloaded. "I didn't want this!"

He leapt up as the grenade he'd been expecting landed. Shots tore through brush and kicked up stone on the other side of the boulder, but he was already moving up the slope, using the grenade's explosion to cover his movement.

A quick peek from his new vantage point revealed no sign of them downslope. A day ago, they would have taken the bait. Yardarm-4 would have run up and made a shield to cover Rekkana. Then she would have jumped over it to land behind the boulder, a comet of energy that would meteor down to finish him off.

He'd taught them to be more patient.

"What did you want?" Yardarm-4 called from about three o'clock, moving to Lisbon-13's right—but it could have been a feint. "You accepted. What did it offer you?" From farther to the right. It hadn't been a feint.

Lisbon-13 threw a grenade right where he knew Yardarm-4 would be, and then turned. Rekkana stood a few feet away. She'd crept up while he was focused on Yardarm-4. She'd probably been on the move before he'd spoken. It was what he'd have done. He almost smiled.

Her fist glimmered and quaked with an unfamiliar power. She only had to release her grip, and that energy would rip through him, burning without fire.

"It offered me what I most desired, but in the end, it could never give me that. It could only take it away."

Lisbon-13 lifted his gleaming eyes to meet Rekkana's cobalt gaze and raised Divinity.

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Mask

We're all thrust into situations we find unseemly. The real test is what you do when you find yourself in one. We're staring down the barrel at another Collapse. I can see all the signs around me. There is no denying it anymore. The Darkness has arrived. Now, I'm being tested once again.

I carry a great potential inside. To create. To forge. No one else can do what I do… and a part of me thinks I should keep it that way. I'm not sure I want to share this gift. It's a tremendous responsibility, this power. I know how I use it. Can I trust anyone else to do so reliably? Would this ability be corrupted, squandered; should others have access? I can already see the Darkness manipulating it to its advantage.

On the other hand, it would push Exos everywhere ahead technologically, elevating our standing and truly making us superior. I've always felt the Last City could use more protection than the Vanguard could afford. I could provide that, widespread, and make it readily available to all. March myself right into the Deep Stone Crypt and use the Bray Exoscience Facility to its fullest capability. Stave off this dark night. The armory is already known. It's a pointless institution if it's not providing help to those who need it.

Where would that leave me though? I imagine I'd be just another Exo, reducing the Black Armory and its traditions to some moot forgotten foundry. That's not the legacy I'm trying to preserve. The armory… me… we're more than just the weapons we make. What we represent—the values we stand for—would be lost without us and would run astray without supervision. Yet, if I don't act now, there won't be anything left to preserve. The Darkness will not yield. The Guardians will require more from me. The armory needs to evolve.

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Grips

Lakshmi-2 knew exactly what she was asking. The query was the question. She needed to be both literal and lateral.

>REMOTE ARCHIVE DATABASE TEXT ONLY SEARCH INITIALIZED
>WELCOME, USER "LAKSHMI-2"
>PLEASE ENTER SEARCH QUERY
>exo identification change post-Collapse
>RESULTS

A luminous ream flooded the holographic display: a few hundred thousand electric haystacks, likely nary a needle among them.

>PLEASE ENTER SEARCH QUERY
>exo identification/OR/name change—"Bray Exoscience"
>RESULTS

The haystacks had dwindled, but she could still spend years rummaging through them to no avail.

Lakshmi-2 stood silent amid the stacks, musing for some time.

>PLEASE ENTER SEARCH QUERY
>search for and identify Exo names; query sub-command: flag results as "exonamesearch"
>RESULTS

There! Now she had just one enormous haystack. What needles there may be would certainly lie within.

>PLEASE ENTER SEARCH QUERY
>query entries flagged exonamesearch; identify exo name -#; query sub-command: flag results as "exonamesearch-#"
>RESULTS

If anything changed in the millions of search results, Lakshmi-2 couldn't discern it.

>PLEASE ENTER SEARCH QUERY
>query entries flagged exonamesearch-#; identify "-#"; flag results as "exonumber"; cross-reference entries flagged exonamesearch-# and exonumber for results = exonamesearch-#+exonumber+1; flag results "haystack"; query entries flagged haystack; extract post-Collapse data

The computations couldn't have taken any longer than the other searches, but Lakshmi-2 didn't know if her typed commands would be interpreted. Anticipation stretched time.

>RESULTS

Lakshmi-2's eyes widened as the haystack vanished, leaving a double handful of glittering data points. But how many were needles?

After only a few minutes of reading, she knew: it had happened before. After a few hours, she felt she had all she'd find from the archive and made a few notes for further inquiry: 

Historical Basis for Spontaneous Reset Syndrome
—Heyka-3/4: Notorious Dark Ages Warlord. Post-reset, became a lone raider.
—Vander-2/3: Rescued from the Great Disaster because reset incapacitated him. Served as City guard post-reset. Ghost destroyed on Luna. (Pre- or post-reset? Do Ghosts protect Exo Guardians from spontaneous reset?) 
—Lilakee-5/6/7: Curious case. Known sufferer of severe DER-related nightmares and outbursts. Commandeered a jumpship and vanished.
—Selass-7/8: Technician sent to data mine Titan settlements. Reset occurred in return transit. Post-reset, remained research technician assisting Cryptarchs.

These were Exos that had seemingly rebooted themselves; they had wiped away their own identities and taken a new number. Or had someone else somehow done it for them? Could there be records of some of them outside the archive? Could one or two still be alive?

Lakshmi-2 closed her eyes, slowed her breathing, and focused on the dichotomy of her emotions. What she'd discovered felt momentous, but she knew her colleagues would treat it as a curiosity. People often discounted Exos. It was if there were a line between frame and flesh and blood. The idea offended Lakshmi-2, but at the same time, she knew Exos were different enough from normal Humans. The existence of Exos who reset themselves—for whatever reason—proved that.

Or did they?

A quick search of the medical archives turned up ailments and causes considered quackery by the Golden Age: psychogenic amnesia, dissociative fugue, retrograde memory loss, personal obliteration, betrayal theory…

What did it all mean?

Lakshmi-2 felt uncertain, and that always boded ill.

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Vest

I'm so angry, so frustrated. I've lost family and friends. The world has been ripped apart, and I'm left standing in the void at the center. Why me? Why am I left alone here? Survivor's guilt doesn't begin to describe my pain. I miss my family. I don't know what family means when I don't even carry the blood to tie us together any longer. At times, I feel I was made to be a walking advertisement for BrayTech. A product. "Look how successful the Exo Project was." I'm just a collection of memories and impulses—some kind of abomination.

I know that can't be true. I… just don't know what to do. I must be meant for more. I can't live a "normal life." I never had a chance for that, not with the family I was born into. I'm filled with rage. I want to correct the mistakes of my predecessors. The blights on humanity unleashed by my grandfather… could that be his intent when he made me? Was I born from unacknowledged guilt and some fear of consequence? He seemed incapable of those emotions, but he was only Human in the end. 

Whether he planned this or not, I'm going to destroy that damned crypt, and I'll rid the world of the shadow cast by Clovis Bray and his infernal creations.

I also know what that means for me. One day my mission will end, and I won't have to wonder what to do with myself. I will be the last to go.

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Strides

Hmph. I don't always know where I've been, what I've done. Every so often, a weapon comes across my workbench, and I see… traces… what looks like my work. Something that sparks a memory, a flash. Nothing of substance. Nothing reliable.

Marks on my body tell me I've seen plenty of action. If need be, I'm ready for more. The Tower is my home. It suits me, and I'll protect it, no matter the cost. I'm treated like a person here, not a machine. Feeling accepted and enjoying your work aren't easy things to come by, and I'm… hmm, sure I'm already doing the most important work of any of my lives. Safeguarding humanity. Arming Guardians. Ready to defend what I care about. Can't think of a higher calling for myself.

Being an Exo isn't some sort of curse. It's given me opportunities I wouldn't have otherwise. I'm… uh, lucky. I don't live with the burden of whoever I was. Lotta folks only get one chance. I've had 44 to start over—to get it right. I feel like I've done it this time. Must have messed up the previous 43… I know I never want to see 45, that's for sure. If I have to give everything I have to save the people and home I care about, so be it. Might be time for a new generation, anyway.

This is who I want to be. My choice. I want to be good. Make a difference. A lot of people are driven by selfishness. Greed. Obsessing over things they can't control. I try not to let those things guide me. I aim to be my own guide, and so far, I'd say it's been pretty successful. Everyone should be so fortunate—a fresh start to do what's right. I'll keep doing what I can. There's a whole world of good and bad out there. Only one is worth helping.

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Cloak

"Do you know why we're here?"

"Of course. You invited me to this interview… Oh, no tea, thank you. I don't drink."

"You're aware of why—"

"Why you're interested? Of course. I've been doing a lot of research since I awoke. You're from something called the Future War Cult. Odd name for what seems to be sensible precaution."

"Yes…"

"And so your interest in my case must have something to do with the Cult's 'sensible precaution.' I gather that our kind were made as some sort of super soldiers long ago, for a war no one seems to know much about. And now, we live much like other people in a universe that has gone to war with itself. Although, I think we Exos might also be immortal. Isn't it odd?"

"Much of this conversation is odd."

"I'm not talking about us. I mean that given a whole universe seemingly at war, with invading aliens of all sorts, there's a people specifically designed to be super soldiers. And yet, we Exos just do as we like?"

"Go on."

"Take me, for example. I'm a researcher—a scientist. And I'm a damn good scientist, from all that I've read. And when I woke up, there was nothing more natural for me to do than simply carry on doing that. Super soldier? More like super scientist. I'd hardly know which end of a gun to point at them. But here? In my lab? I touch a machine or just look at it, and I know how to use it. It's like… like…"

"Riding a bicycle."

"A what?" 

"Never mind. Tell me more about what happened when you woke up."

"Well. Suddenly I was here, in my lab, but lying on the floor over there. I looked around, and it was like I said. I just knew how everything worked. But I couldn't remember anything."

"Nothing at all? Not even your name?"

"No. Nothing. Well, language and motor skills and so on, obviously. But it was the oddest sensation. I've since looked up how I might describe it, and I never found anything better than déjà vu. Everything was familiar but foreign. Even my own body. It was… unsettling. But then I found files of some of my research. And I knew it was mine. It was like reading something I'd forgotten I'd written. I didn't remember where or when or even why I'd written it, but they were clearly my thoughts. It was clearly me. And that's how I found my old name."

"Yes, let's talk about your old name. The number. Why did you change it?"

"It… it wasn't… it didn't… A new designation was necessary."

"Are you all right?"

"Yes. I'm fine. Why?"

"Something happened to you there. Your eyes. Nothing moved." 

"Well, excuse me. I don't know what you mean. So… do you have a theory?"

"Several. What were you researching before you… before you changed your name?"

"Ah, a project with my colleagues, Gonzalez and Mwangi. Delightful people. Have you met?"

"Briefly. Your research?"

"Yes, well, I won't bore you with the technical details, but we're engaged in a study of dark matter and dark energy. It seems to be my main area of interest. I awoke when I'd been in the midst of looking into…"

"Yes?"

"Well… errors."

"Errors?"

"Yes. The data we've collected has peculiar… anomalies. Between you and me, I think it stems from human error. But I'm going back over all of my previous work to see if I missed something."

"And have you? Found anything amiss?"

"No. If anything, it's been quite therapeutic. It turns out that I'm a damn good scientist."

"…"

"Um… you know, it's odd. I find myself quite parched. Would you mind pouring me some of that tea?"

<|endoftext|>

Daring Hunter's Cloak

OK, here's where I give you this big pep talk about "what it means to be a Hunter" and "follow these rules" and blah blah blah. 

So. Here's the one rule to being a Hunter: can you see me? I'm—I'm shrugging. It's—hard to convey in a written— 

Anyway. It's a shrug. Get it? There's no one way to be a Hunter. Just—figure it out as you go along. I know you can. Otherwise you wouldn't be a Hunter. OK?  

So what are you waiting for? Get out of here. Wait, wait—that'll be 1000 Glimmer. I'm kidding! Now go make me proud. Or don't. Just make you proud, okay? 

Wow. Sometimes I inspire even myself.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Mask (Rekindled)

"Now is not the time, Cayde." Sword strike. Forty-one Cabal down.

"On the contrary, my horned friend." Throwing knife. Thirty-six. "These red lesions are burning down our house. The stakes have never been higher!" Hand cannon. Thirty-seven. "Let's say… two thousand Glimmer a head."

"Ikora said 'Red Legion,' you fool. And no." Sword strike. Forty-two and forty-three.

"Five thousand."

"I will not wager against you when our home—"

Severed.

"Wh— What is this? Cayde, what have you done to me? Another trick to win a bet we haven't made?"

"Ugh."

"Cayde!"

"No, you big ox! I can't… ugh. Can't you see that it got me too? Look out!" Sidearm. Thirty-eight.

"The Light is beyond my reach. My Ghost is empty." Sword strike. Forty-four. "This means…"

"They need us. We should split up." Throwing knife. Thirty-nine. "I'll sweep the streets, you take the—"

"Ten thousand." Sword strike. Forty-five. "THESE are the highest stakes." Sword strike. Forty-six. "You want a bet, Hunter? Let's bet. The only prize is our lives. For all time.”

Hand cannon. Firefly! Forty, forty-one, forty-two. "You're on."

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Grasps (Rekindled)

"How many was that? I sorta stopped counting a while ago."

Cayde's whisper is loud enough to be heard by any Red Legion nearby, but he'd solved that problem with three flashes of his knife in the last two minutes. His Ghost doesn't respond.

"Never mind, never mind. You know, this would go a lot faster if I could draw 'em out somehow. Use something for bait. Something small."

His Ghost still doesn't respond.

"Not like you. Something without a big glowy eye. Wait, shh-shh-shh…"

He ducks into the shadows. Two Legionaries flanking a Goliath tank waddle past his hiding spot. No need to be a hero, he thinks. At least, not a dead one. Not yet.

"Three more blocks and we're in business. You sure you can still access the terminals?"

No response.

"You're right, I shouldn't doubt you. Just because we haven't touched the Light in nine hours doesn't mean that you can't still, you know, do your thing with the beam. But you're my last hope, little buddy. Zavala's gonna take years to build up his big space fleet. Ikora's gonna sit and stare at a Traveler-shaped hole in the ground for just as long. It's up to us now. You with me?"

A loud whisper: "Always."

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Vest (Rekindled)

"Vanguard emergency override, auth chartreuse seven seven dash six."

[Good morning, Hunter Vanguard. Automated voice help system engaged. How can I help you today?]

"I need to take down a giant space rhino before he sees me."

[I assume you're referring to a Cabal enemy. Can you provide me with any more information?]

"He looks like a fifteen-foot-tall spiky cloud with wings and a cape."

[That doesn't align with reference images I have on file. Is he wearing some kind of special armor?]

"Either that or he's got a real weird body. We're talking weirder than usual."

[How can I help you today?]

"Sorry. Sorry. So we need to kill this Ghaul guy. I need ideas. How did that one fireteam take down Crota again?"

[They infiltrated the Ascendant Realm and confronted him at his Oversoul throne.]

"OK, that's probably not gonna work here. What about Skolas?"

[Please specify: when he met his execution in the Prison of Elders—]

"Nope."

[—or when he brought his House of Wolves across time through Vex time gates—]

"Now we're talking! Vex stuff. Teleporting. How do I do that?"

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Strides (Rekindled)

"So your name is 'Failsafe'?"

"Yes! And your name is the Cayde unit!" ("You're an Exo. Human brain in a robot body. Weird mouth lights.")

"Wait, who was that?"

"Who was who? I am me!"

"It doesn't matter. You don't know what'll happen if I do this. You're an AI, just like one back home that told me about this place."

"That is incorrect!" ("I'm about a thousand times smarter.")

"If you're so smart, how come you crashed your big ship into a horse moon?"

"That is very rude!"

"Look, we don't have a lot of time. I'm just gonna wire up this Vex teleporter to my triple jump circuits. What's the worst that could happen?"

"Based on my cycles analyzing Vex portal technology, one of the many alarming yet likely outcomes is that your body and consciousness are separated into two distinct antimatter dimensions!"

"Ah, you're making that up. Here goes."

"Please wait a moment, Cayde unit! I have not encountered anyone else on 7066 Nessus since the crash of the Exodus Black." ("I'm not good at being lonely.") "If you are absorbed into a quasi-space pseudorealm—"

"Sorry, Failsafe, gotta be brave here."

Dzzt.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Cloak (Rekindled)

"So that's it for now, Ace. I don't think I'm gonna get out of this one. Not the most heroic way to go out for your ol' dad, I'll admit, but… hurk! Ah, shoot. Gotta start over. How long was that one, Failsafe?"

"Two hundred thirty-six seconds since the last teleportation! You never told me that Ace was your son! How wonderful!"("And super sad.")

"That's the theory. Saw the name in a journal in my pocket when my Ghost first rezzed me. Seemed as likely as anything else."

"So you don't know if your son truly exists?" ("That's super-duper sad.")

"Nope. But you don't know what happened to your crew. Does it change how you feel about 'em?"

"Not at all!" ("But they're still dead.")

"There you go. Now do me a favor and start the recording again, will ya? Not sure h—"

"Cayde unit, I have great news! A ship similar to yours has entered the gravitational radius of this planetoid!"

"What?! All right! Uh-oh. Listen, the next teleport's about to happen. Don't tell them that I got in over my head, OK? Tell them it was some kind of Vex trap or something. Got it? Failsafe?"

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Mask (Resplendent)

Dax Etono moved through the darkness of the Red Legion storehouse as quietly as he could until he reached the control panels at the far end. He looked around, hoping the towers of equipment and storage containers would keep him hidden.

Lit the panel up.

This panel would generally be used by its owners just for inventory on this one unit. After the Cabal had seized the buildings here, however, the Guardians realized the Legion had unlocked the network to such a degree that if you could access any panel, you could get in almost anywhere in their systems. Dax pulled the buckle from his belt—a mag-hack. He let it click against the panel, and it started to copy over information. Tons of it.

The lights came on. Dax cursed, turning around. Footsteps echoed from both entrances. No enemies were visible yet. He drew his weapon and retrieved the mag-hack. Flicked a switch on its smooth metal side. At least he'd get the Vanguard some of the data.

Three Cabal rounded the corner, firing. Dax took aim to defend himself as information began blazing across the galaxy.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Grasps (Resplendent)

"You can make anything sound like no big deal if you say it the right way."

Gemma Nixx knew that from very early on, and yet it still never ceased to bother her. You could say, "The Red Legion is wiping out innocent people all around the City," all matter-of-fact. But now, as she led maimed and hollow-eyed stragglers through ridges of junk and cratered earth, those words swelled and distorted until they were her entire reality.

You could say, "You've lost your regenerative ability, but you're still able to fight." But saying it didn't get her new feelings across. The pressure of the rebar she grabbed to steady herself was not pain; yet, like every sensation now, it stung in her brain.

"This way!" Gemma located a hatch and held it open, watching as the survivors filed in.

Then she slammed it shut, and a few seconds later, the hidden transport the people had crawled into revved its engine and burst from a pile of debris. Gemma watched them go.

She waved and saw a puff of smoke in a burnt-out building a quarter mile away. Then she saw a hole in her hand. And then nothing.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Vest (Resplendent)

He was floating just about one meter off a comms satellite. I know, 'cause I was talking to him. Not in person—I was manning about 30 weather drones, so I had this array of camera views and readouts. I see him drifting there, drill in hand, by an open panel.

This was a Guardian, with a capital G. I mean, it makes me laugh now. I was thinking, I've seen that guy win ten in a row in the Crucible. Why is he fixing a satellite?

He told me, all casual, that the comms had been acting up, and he was saving the regular maintenance crew a trip into orbit in the middle of a storm. I even asked myself at the time, wow, do Guardians do that?

Anyway, I came to find out, the second the sensors beyond the Wall started going dark, he'd suspected sabotage. Came straight to investigate. He didn't want to freak me out.

He was one of the first that we lost during the invasion. The screen just filled with orange and white. Gone.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Strides (Resplendent)

Do you know what it takes to keep moving when you're so afraid—SO afraid?

In the EDZ, we were starting to mount an organized defense. It was still Cabal territory. She and I drew the short straw to hit a rolling transport: a fat Cabal train on wheels coming out of a munitions depot and heading for the Farm.

So we're waiting behind a ridge and the carrier approaches. She blasts it with her Grenade Launcher. The shell slams into a tread on the carrier and it just… sticks. Doesn't blow up. I look at her. She's gritting her teeth.

While I'm still in shock, she leaps to her feet, hops on a Sparrow, and zips about a mile down the road. I watch through the binocs. She pulls out a sidearm and aims from behind a bunch of steel girders. Shoots at the shell in the transport tread. Takes another shot. Three. Five. It's unlike her to miss.

Then I see why: her whole body is shaking with fear.

Finally she detonates the shell. And I mean, I have never seen a blast like this. An orange dome that reaches almost all the way back to me. It melts the rubber on my goggles.

It was the right move. You don't come back from that, though.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Cloak (Resplendent)

Before they took the Traveler away, we thought we were tough. All of us. But man, without the Ghosts, we became real vulnerable for a while. At least I did. Ghaul absolutely had us pegged.

A bunch of Fallen were trying to establish a base of operations near the old Nessus crash site after the boss left. When Trake and I arrived on Nessus to help organize resistance against the Red Legion, we engaged the Fallen—we couldn't let them build up their forces.

So the ground trembles when one of the Fallen transports blows up, and I lose my grip on my rifle—it slips right down the ridge we're taking cover behind. I've never felt so stupid, and I… I couldn't move.

Trake shakes me out of my stupor, and we scramble over the ridge to get my rifle. I slide down and grab it while he covers me. It feels like the world is frozen in place. I can still picture him shooting round after round as we head back to safety.

He's right on my heels, but… I'm sorry. No, he, uh, he was hit in the neck and, uh, that was it.

The fear—I can't describe it at all. But I remember it in my bones.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Cloak (Majestic)

The knock-on effects of Ulan-Tan's Symmetry theory were wide reaching. They likely extended much further than Ulan-Tan himself ever intended. The idea of Light and Darkness as amoral, interdependent forces led to some extremely inconvenient questions. Chief among those was the following: If the Light and Darkness were interdependent, how could one ever "defeat" the Darkness?

As Ulan-Tan himself said, "I wish the Light could 'win,' as you put it. But we must accept that it's just not that simple."

This became a thorny subject for the Guardians, who had spent centuries asserting their combat capabilities. Inherent in their militarism was the idea that victory, or at least self-defense, was possible. However, if their use of the Light simply prompted the spontaneous generation of Darkness somewhere else in the universe, then their military efforts were inherently futile. They were simply propagating an eternal stalemate at the expense of their own pain and suffering.

In short, Ulan-Tan's biggest sin was telling a ruling warrior class that their war was unwinnable.

—Excerpts from "Ulan-Tan, Heretic Saint"

<|endoftext|>

Cobra's Hood

Prak'kesh sat on his Gray Hornet, parked in his usual spot at the base of the Tower. The former Guardian was watching bootleg transmissions of the latest Cabal death matches when one of his runners tugged on his sleeve. 

Prak'kesh jumped in surprise. "Son-of-a-dreg! Don't sneak up like that!" He smoothed his fur vest in self-placation. 

"Sorry, sir." The kid scuffed his feet sheepishly. "Just that some guys wanna make a bet." 

Prak'kesh sucked his teeth in annoyance. "So take the bet! What the hell you hassling me for?" 

The kid ran his grubby fingers along the sharp black lines of the bookie's ride. "They won't gimme the chip. They say they gotta talk to you direct." 

Prak'kesh swatted the runner's hand away. "I just had that detailed." He sighed in exasperation. "Fine. Send 'em over. But if they end up making some lame prop on the new Hunter Vanguard or something, I'm gonna run you over with this thing." 

The kid nodded and scampered off. 

A few minutes later, a fireteam of three Hunters sauntered over. Prak'kesh slouched further onto his Sparrow in a dramatic display of nonchalance. His ex-Corsair enforcer, Tulnik, cracked his knuckles. 

The Hunters posed coolly in front of the bookie. The team leader, a Gunslinger, casually flicked a knife between his fingers. "I guess you've probably heard of us." 

Prak'kesh glanced at Tulnik, who shook his head. "Uh, not really," the bookie said. "Now what's this about?" 

The Arcstrider stepped forward menacingly. "Show respect! You're talking to the Death Dealers."  

Prak'kesh raised an eyebrow. "Cool name. I once had a cat called 'Death Dealer.'" Behind him, he heard Tulnik guffaw. 

The Arcstrider snarled and sent a crackle of Arc energy rippling through his arm. But before he could strike, the Nightstalker blinked in front of him and put her hand on his chest. "Whoa. Cool it, Gene. He's not worth it. Remember your breathing exercises." 

The Arcstrider nodded. "You're right, you're right. He's not worth it." He retreated, put his hands on his head, and walked in circles around the plaza, exhaling loudly. 

Prak'kesh cleared his throat cautiously. "So, you wanna make a bet, or…?" 

"You're damn right we do," the Gunslinger replied. "We're betting on Hunters to win the Guardian Games." 

"Hunters rule!" shouted Gene from across the plaza. 

"Is that all?" Prak'kesh asked with confusion. "That's stock standard. Why didn't you just put in a chip like everyone else?" 

The Nightstalker leaned in conspiratorially. "Because of what we're wagering," she said and opened her pack to reveal a single, curling horn. 

Prak'kesh's eyes went wide. "Is that whose I think it is?" 

The Gunslinger crossed his arms smugly. "You tell us." 

"How did you even get this?" 

"Never question the Death Dealers. Now, what's it worth to you?" the Gunslinger said. 

Prak'kesh shrugged. "Hunters win gold, you get one legendary Hand Cannon each. If not, I get…" he dropped his voice to a whisper, "the horn." 

"Throw in a couple Umbral Engrams," the Nightstalker countered, "and you got a deal." 

Prak'kesh pretended to consider. "It's a deal," he finally said and recorded the transaction in his datapad. "Good luck in the Guardian Games, Hunters." 

"Hunters rule!" shouted Gene, to nobody in particular.

<|endoftext|>

Illuminus Mask (Majestic)

Eido crept on all sixes through the massive halls of the Dreaming City. She was following an indistinct murmur, both terrifying and compelling. A thousand voices, all muttering to themselves. How did she get here?

She peered around the corner of a massive archway. Beyond, she found a circular chamber with an elaborate sigil carved into the stone floor. Three Awoken figures stood at precise intervals along the carved seal. 

The chamber was without a ceiling—the void of space yawned overhead. Spiraling galaxies seemed to fill the room. Eido realized that she wasn't breathing. Was she dead? 

Suddenly, Eido stood in the center of the sigil. She turned in a circle, trying to identify the looming figures, but their faces were vast and unknowable, like the void above. She felt the weight of their focus, as if she were falling in all directions at once. 

She looked down and discovered with horror that the ground was receding. She was floating upwards, into the vacuum of space. The figures paid her no attention as she drifted away. 

As the chamber fell away beneath her, the murmur condensed and merged until it unified into a single panicked wail. 

Eido awoke to find the scream coming from her own mouth. Misraaks crouched next to her pallet, wringing his lower hands in concern. "Be calm, young one. Be calm. You are Eido. You are in the one true now. You are safe." 

He gave her a sip of Ether from his own meager reserve and waited patiently until she quieted. "Tell me of your journey," he prompted, intently. 

She explained her experience, as best a hatchling could. 

Misraaks nodded gravely. "The Techeuns. Advisors to our hosts. They are… like Scribes for the Awoken." He sat, thinking quietly. 

"I know you are frightened. But I am confident this is a blessing," he decided. "All great things appear first as monsters." 

"There may be a day," he continued, "when you are seen as a monster. And your blessing is frightening to those who cannot understand it. When that time comes, remember this moment." Eido nodded, though she didn't fully understand. How could a hatchling be a monster? 

"I, too, am sometimes frightened by the Techeuns," Misraaks confided. "But we must look beyond our fear to find the Light. This is courage. Can you show courage?" 

Eido nodded again. 

"You can. I'm sure of it," Misraaks said proudly. "The Light provides." 

"The Light provides," Eido murmured as she lay back down to a peaceful slumber.

<|endoftext|>

Illuminus Grasps (Majestic)

Eido recoiled as the spindly claws of the Splicer Gauntlet snapped and jerked. When her father wore it, the damned thing always moved smoothly, as if it were his own fingers. But attached to the end of her arm, it seemed possessed by a life of its own. 

Misraaks's considerable patience was beginning to wear thin. "No, Eido, no. Splicing is not about thinking. It is about feeling. Feel the energy flow from the ground, through your legs, up your torso, and out through your arm." His arms wove circular patterns in the air, as if gently wafting smoke upwards. "The movement of the Gauntlet is the continuation of a motion that begins deep in the heart of the planet, where it keeps its Light." 

Eido sighed. Misraaks was intent on passing the Way of the Splicer to his daughter, but after three days of attempts without the barest signs of success, they were both becoming frustrated. Eido was eager to learn—to live up to her father's skills—but the harder she tried, the more violently the Gauntlet seemed to reject her. 

Eido took several deep breaths and extended her mind's eye through the ground, deep into the well of Light at the center of the planet. She followed the Light through the firmament, up through her body, and into the Gauntlet. It whirred smoothly to life. 

"Yes, just so," Misraaks encouraged her. "Now feel the Light extend from the Gauntlet into the Shank. Feel its code lying dormant. It is sleeping, waiting for you to wake it." 

Eido extended the Gauntlet. A surge of energy shot forth from its claws, sending crackles of electricity rippling across the Shank's surface. In her shock, Eido jerked the Gauntlet away, which severed the connection. The electricity sparked for an instant longer, then went still. A small plume of smoke issued forth from deep within the Shank. Eido didn't need to Misraaks to tell her that she had just fried the main circuit net. 

Misraaks took a moment to compose himself before speaking. "This is a good lesson. When one focuses on the metal, the form of the machine, and not—"

"Misraakskel. Father," Eido interrupted. "This is not… I don't want…" She fought her emotions for control of her voice. Misraaks waited for his daughter to compose herself. 

"I am not a Splicer," she finally said. "I'm certain of it. I know this is a disappointment to you but—the Gauntlet has spoken." She pulled the spiteful mechanism off her arm and held it out. 

Misraaks took it reluctantly. "I am sorry that you will not follow me in the Way of the Splicer. However," he continued, "it is a far greater thing to know what you are and what you are not." He lifted all four of his palms toward her as a sign of respect. "Self-knowledge is the rarest skill of all, and not commonly found in one so young." 

Eido was filled with relief and gratitude for her lesson.

<|endoftext|>

Illuminus Vest (Majestic)

The Guardian was resplendent. Their armor gleamed, even in the dull gloom of the Europan night. The golden scrollwork of their breastplate glowed, as if the Light itself imbued the metal. It was beautiful. 

The broken forms of dead and dying Eliksni littered the battlefield, each bearing the symbol for the House of Salvation. Blood and Ether seeped across the ice, freezing into rich stains. The Guardian strolled casually from body to body, searching for ammunition and weaponry. 

Eido had watched the battle through a viewfinder from atop a far-off ridgeline. Even at this distance, the brutality was hard to countenance. She glanced quizzically at Misraaks, who crouched beside her. These were the Guardians her father trusted? 

As if sensing her reservation, Misraaks spoke. "The Guardians are capable of mercy, though they seldom show it." 

"Then why does the Great Machine bless them?" Eido asked. "Is it not better to be merciful?" 

"The Darkness is coming," Misraaks replied wearily. "Nearer now than ever before. Perhaps mercilessness is exactly what the Great Machine needs."

<|endoftext|>

Illuminus Strides (Majestic)

"They may reject you," Misraaks warned. "The Techeuns are not welcoming to outsiders." 

"I understand," the Scribe replied. "But even if they refuse me instruction, I might still get access to their data archives. That alone would be a lifetime's worth of knowledge." 

"You do not have a lifetime to study," Misraaks warned. "We must rejoin the Eliksni soon. They will need guidance. We must reach them while there are still some left to help." 

"I will learn as much as I can, as quickly as I can." The Scribe turned her palms downward in a show of fealty. 

Misraaks paused, wishing to prolong the moment. 

"I recall a time," he reminisced, "when you were just a hatchling. The Techeuns visited you in the night. You woke up screaming." 

"I recall it well," the Scribe replied. "To tell the truth, they still frighten me. But we must look beyond our fear to find the Light." 

In that moment, Misraaks saw her anew. The Scribe shone with a brightness he had never seen before. A mixture of joyful optimism and grim determination. She has finally found her path to the Light, he thought. 

"I am proud to have such a brave Scribe as daughter," he said, in a break of formality. 

"Thank you," Eido replied, surprised by his tone. "I'm lucky to have such a wise Kell for my father."

<|endoftext|>

Illuminus Cloak (Majestic)

"And all of the Houses respected their decisions?" Eido asked, dubious. 

"Yes," Variks replied. "It was so agreed by all of Riis." The old Scribe traced his fingers along the datapad, deciphering notes that hadn't been accessed in decades. 

"But didn't all the other Houses fight amongst each other, disputing their decisions?" Eido leaned forward, fascinated by the idea of one House accruing so much political sway without resorting to violence. 

"To dispute the House of Judgment was to dispute all Eliksni Houses," Variks explained. "It was the voice of the Eliksni, united." 

Eido puzzled over this. The idea of mediation was not new to her—Misraaks often solved problems between House members without violence—but the idea of organizing a whole society using that method was novel. 

"So it was the ruling House," Eido concluded. 

Variks clicked his mandibles in annoyance. "No! The House of Judgment was both above and below all other Houses. It was both Kell and Dreg. Its authority came from humility." 

Eido had only ever known of Scribes as political animals. Power-brokers and go-betweens, like Variks. But the idea of Scribes as neutral parties, dedicated to peace and knowledge, was enticing. 

"This is why the old Scribes pursued knowledge relentlessly. They sought it from uncommon sources," Variks continued. "Their knowledge was overwhelming and unyielding. So, when a Scribe of House Judgment decided, all Eliksni respected it. They knew that nothing was left unconsidered." 

Eido nodded raptly. For the first time, she imagined peace not just as an aspiration, but as a practice and a vocation. The idea blossomed within her.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Mask

Emerald Coast. European Deadzone.

Guardian jumpships roared away overhead. The Drifter walked along the shoreline, past the wreckage of Cabal shields and armor. The Lights of the Tower had taken very well to his little game.

He gripped a massive hand cannon in his fist, and his Ghost buzzed around his head like a carrion fly. Its Light was as red as a Vex eye. Drifter scanned the battlefield as he walked, making note of the weapons and the scrap he would have the Derelict's AI transmat to the hangar. The beach was littered with burning Cabal tech. Drifter would find a use for all of it. Routine maintenance for the Derelict. Additional banks.

Drifter bet if he took two of Cabal shields and put them together, he could build a cute little hut that would keep out the sun so he could take a nap.

He passed idly by a Legionary crawling towards a discarded Slug Rifle and shot it in the head. The bark of his cannon rang out across the shore.

This Gambit thing was going so well he might soon have the resources for additional battlefields.

He passed a crouched Psion fiddling with the radio on a fallen Colossus' armor.

A burst from Drifter's cannon sent the small Cabal morph flipping backwards, its head evaporating in a violet puff.

Drifter continued his stroll, readying the battlefield for the Derelict's arrival. The occasional monstrous bark of his cannon was the only sound for miles around.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Grips

Emerald Coast. European Deadzone.

Drifter waited, covering his eyes from the sun as the Derelict descended on a coastline covered in Cabal wreckage.

He keyed a switch on his remote and his ship's Transmat beam dissolved the bank at the center of the battlefield. He couldn't help but chuckle. His Ghost looked at him quizzically.

"Sometimes it is just this easy," Drifter said, shrugging. "The Guardians get paid and we collect our goods. No ambushes, pompous aliens—"

He heard a dull boom behind him over the howl of the Derelict's engines. The sky darkened. He turned to see that Cabal reinforcements had arrived from a massive capital ship above. Armored soldiers landed with heavy thuds in the sand, their weapons a glistening silver.

Drifter's Ghost expanded and its eye went wide. It did this instead of laughing. It couldn't laugh.

"Shut up. Shut up, you idiot." Drifter waved his friend away.

He eyed the approaching squad of soldiers bristling with armor and weapons. The Mote of Dark was cold to the touch in his hand.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Vest

Emerald Coast. European Deadzone.

Drifter shambled up to the bank. He dragged a Psion corpse with him so he'd have something to sit on.

He dumped the body to the ground, took a seat.

Drifter licked his finger and slid it behind a hidden panel on the bank's outer shell to crack the thing open. It unfolded, ejecting a single, compressed Mote.

A Mote of Dark, he called it. He could see it glow despite the shining sun overhead. It was chill to the touch, an effect of the bank. This particular haul was worth a hundred and two singular Motes of Dark. A one-sided slaughter.

His comfy Psion chair twitched. He stood up, blasted two rounds into it with a massive cannon.

Above him, the Derelict descended. His Ghost flinched slightly as the ship's engines kicked up a whirlwind of dust. Drifter cooed softly to his friend. "I love this job."

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Strides

A sudden wind tore at Drifter's duster. He stared hard across the sand at the line of Cabal soldiers in his path. A towering Centurion at the head spoke for the group in fierce Cabalese.

[Surrender your weapons and your ship. Or die.]

Drifter stuck a single finger in the air at them. He imagined the Cabal narrowing their eyes at him under the helmets.

[Why does your kind always insist on fighting even when you are so hopelessly outgunned?]

Drifter shook his head. "I won't fight. I like to watch," he says, and keyed the Mote of Dark in his hand.

An unearthly howl filled his ears and he cursed. He never quite got used to it. The sky turned a shade of fiery green and split in half.

Nine creatures that Guardians would know as Primevals stepped onto the sand of the Emerald Coast, out of place, impossible, massive, and wrong.

The Cabal let out a guttural cry. An approximation of fear.

Tracers raked the air as they fired everything they had against the suddenly-emerging Taken. Explosions rocked the shoreline as the Cabal ship joined in the assault. Pillars of flame erupted into the sky. The Primevals didn't seem to notice, marching forward through the bullets and the fire towards the enemies of their master, who hadn't moved from where he stood.

The Drifter's smile was all teeth.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Cloak

The Drifter walked along the shoreline, past the wreckage of Cabal shields and armor. His Primevals had done their work.

He gripped a massive hand cannon in his fist, and his Ghost buzzed around his head like a carrion fly. Drifter scanned the battlefield as he walked, making note of the weapons and the scrap he would have the Derelict's AI transmat to the hangar.

He ambled up to a dying Psion amidst the wreckage of a Harvester torn in half, and stared down at it as it bled.

The front of its skull started to glow, a telltale sign that it was trying to throw its mind up at the Drifter.

He stepped forward and kicked it squarely in the head.

He knelt down.

"All the people who matter say we're on the precipice of a new Golden Age. I'm still trying to figure out what that means. But I can tell you this: the last time humanity had a Golden Age, we owned this system. Every inch of it."

He leaned in to whisper into where the Psion's ears would be if it had ears.

"And not all of us are as polite as the ones up in that Tower." A monstrous bark from his hand cannon rang out, the only sound for miles around.

<|endoftext|>

Calamity Rig Mask

Hey, sister. Or brother. Hell, I don't know who's gonna end up listen' to this. Could be a snitch, an idiot, or somebody who ain't picked a side yet.

And that's perfect, because all this talk about choosin' sides? Noise. Before this is over, the only one's gonna have your back is you—and that's even odds.

Use your head. Think clear, all right? Because there are whispers going around, and you need to know when to plug your ears. Things have been different since Sloane went dark… ooh, poor wording? What's wrong, too soon? Let me tell you that we killed some time on New Arcadia. Learned some things. Listened to the wrong whispers.

Be careful who you trust from here on out, all right? Yeah, that includes me, but I've been tellin' you that since the beginning.

<|endoftext|>

Calamity Rig Sleeves

You probably heard I'm takin' a little trip—maybe already took one; I don't know when you're gonna listen to this.

Let me say, the only thing that'd get me into the true cold again would have to be big enough to change it all. When you look down and see it's already in your hands, that's hard to walk away from. 'Specially when it was almost yours to begin with.

So yeah, maybe I've got itchy fingers, but I'm the kind of fella who'd pick somethin' up so nobody else gets it—it's a zero-sum game. I take what I can. Only thing is, I'm not takin' it alone.

And you know me. I like to keep some folk close—real close. I feel somebody's hand on my throat, I figure they're about to kill me or kiss me.

Personally, I like to keep my options open.

<|endoftext|>

Calamity Rig Vest

How do you feel about all this, hero?

You've got a dead heart beating in your chest right now. Only reason you're still movin' is because somebody's got a job for you and they don't think you're done yet.

Anybody asked for your point of view lately? Lots of changes lately—go here, hunt that. Kill him. Kill her. You tell me, "Hell yeah, Drifter! I live for that stuff!"

I'm tellin' you, yeah, you do. Get me?

Am I guilty as the rest of 'em because I tell you to bank a few Motes? You expect me to tell you to decide for yourself, am I right? You know just enough to be stupid.

I'm asking you how you feel because nobody else will. Trust.

<|endoftext|>

Calamity Rig Strides

Being one of the Light's chosen blessed magic babies means you always come back with what you lost. So if frostbite's weighin' on your mind lately, put it aside. Ain't that it don't hurt—I mean, it hurts—but comes a time you can lose a toe and not think twice about it, aside from figurin' if you could drop enough to make a stew.

(You can't, if you're askin'.)

What I'm sayin' is, you can walk the edge if your feet are tough enough. Oughta be high up enough that you can see what's on both sides before you decide which one to hop down to.

You get me? If you follow the Drifter, don't wear your nice shoes.

<|endoftext|>

Calamity Rig Cloak

I don't know who you are. Don't know what school you follow, which side you're on—could be heads, could be tails. Could be the edge. Could be you shoot before the coin lands.

Just know I'll be the one picking it up.

You ever hear the story of the fella who painted bullseyes around his bullet holes? Ol' Drifter's plan is coming together—maybe not as clean as I wanted, maybe without the right folk nearby, but it's happening.

That's why I left this message for you, in a place you wouldn't look if you didn't give a damn. Things are changin'—hell, things have already changed—but Drifter's still a safe bet.

And I've still got plenty of time. Just not as much as I did before.

<|endoftext|>

Illicit Reaper Cloak

"I want out, man. I just want out." —A Dark Age drifter

**

He sat with men who went by the name "Dredgen" in a ritual at least one man had completed before.

Together, they heard whispers. They heard voices. A thousand. Maybe more.

He had always thought they had picked their name for themselves.

But they hadn't. The whispers had given it to them.

He would have found out either way, sooner or later.

Because in another lifetime, he would hear the Cabal Emperor describe his demigods with the same word.

Shadows.

Of Yor.

Of Calus.

Of nothing, as far as he was concerned.

<|endoftext|>

Qiao's Grin

Qiao Supplemental
Qiao's Journal
Path to Ares: 18 Days to Launch

Mihaylova and Evie continue to have conflict that is completely unnecessary. It puts a strain on the Clubhouse. I know Jacob is trying to get a handle on it.

The latest is this ridiculous argument about the subroutines of the AI code. Evie wants to get a look at all of Mihaylova's code to make sure it takes into account the gravity measurements she's making to plot the possible movements of the Traveler.

Traveler—yes. Such a perfect name! Go Evie!

Anyway, Mihaylova simply refuses to unlock all of her code. Not outright, of course, she just deflects, underdelivers, won't let Evie into the whole thing.

I'm not interested in this conflict. I have my own ways of unlocking every piece of code in the onboard systems. So I gave Evie access.

I mentioned it afterwards to Mihaylova, and I expected her to react badly—but of course things don't always work out the way you expect. She got very quiet and said, "Well, Qiao. What's done is done."

<|endoftext|>

Qiao's Care

Qiao Supplemental
Project Catamaran
Clubhouse Gymnasium
A/V Recording
Path to Ares: 30 Days to Launch

Hardy: What, you don't play basketball?

Qiao: Of course I do.

Hardy: Okay, so me and Mihaylova against you and Evie.

Evie: Oh, we'll wipe the floor with you.

Mihaylova: Don't be so sure.

Hardy: How's the nav coming?

Qiao: All told, beautiful. With Mihay's AI and Evie's theories—

Evie: We don't want to accidentally run into it.

Hardy: It?

Evie: Moon X.

Mihaylova: Agh!

Evie: Too slow.

Hardy: Hey! No traveling.

Evie: Sorry—

Qiao: Got it.

Hardy: Not so fast—

Qiao: Two points. You want to talk about fast.

Evie: Wait. Wait.

Hardy: Huh. Okay. What?

Evie: Traveling. Moon X. Look, we need to stop even thinking of it as a satellite or a false moon. It's big, but it acts alive— this thing moves with purpose. It's a visitor. It's… a Traveler.

<|endoftext|>

Qiao's Heart

Qiao Supplemental
A/V Recording
Path to Ares: Launch Day + 1 (Revised Launch Day)

Centcom: Ares this is Centcom, Radio Check. Radio check, over.

Hardy: Centcom this is Ares One. We read you loud and fairly clearly, over.

C: Roger. Hey, just so you know, the, uh, House of Eternal Travel has sent you its prayers. It was all over the news.

H: That one of those Traveler cults?

C: Roger, this is the one that survived the Traveler-cult rumble a few weeks ago.

H: Oh. Well, okay, tell them thanks.

C: Roger. Next radio check 8 minutes.

H: They'll be quiet for a while. Nav?

Qiao:  Steady. We are clear of Earthgrav. Confirming course.

H: Engineering?

Mihaylova: All systems normal.

H: OK. So now it's… a long wait.

Q: Hey. You OK, Jacob?

H: Yeah. A-OK.

Q: Look at the stars.

M: Is there a problem?

Q: Not at all. It's just…

H: Beautiful.

Q: Yes. Like something we are privileged to join but could never deserve.

H: Wonder how the Traveler must feel.

<|endoftext|>

Qiao's Strides

File: Qiao, navigator, Ares One
—Supplemental—
Path to Ares: 58 Days to Launch
Beijing University
A/V Record

Student: Dean Qiao, thank you for answering all these questions about Ares One.

Qiao: No, thank you. I love it.

Student: Do you remember where you were when you first heard about the mission?

Qiao: Huh. I do remember where I was when I got the call. It wasn't called Ares then, of course. Until around launch day it was called Project Catamaran.

Anyway, my oldest daughter was applying to the university and we had flown in from our home in Sydney, to visit. We had lunch with some professors and afterwards we visited one of the dorms. Just over there. It's not there anymore. Thank god. It was an old dorm.

There were protests all over, that day. The Moon X cults were in full force, calling for all governments to combine.

I took the call in the drone we rented for the day. They wanted me to cut the visit short but I refused. They wanted me to be gone for a year and a half. They could wait until morning.

<|endoftext|>

Qiao's Passing

Qiao Supplemental
Journal of Ulysses Qiao, son of Dean Qiao of Beijing University, Navigator of the Ares One
Path to Ares: 476 days to launch

We were in the Rathskeller. If you don't know what that is—I didn't at the time, but it's a sort of restaurant and bar underground, not far from the bookstore. Hundreds of years old. This wasn't Beijing, back then we lived in Australia. Sydney. And I had gone to have lunch with my dad at the university where he was teaching.

So I'd brought all this information about looking for colleges. I remember we had holograms floating all around the table while we ate pizza and it was a great time, you know?

Anyway there was this TV playing. And that was the first time we saw it: drone footage from the edge of the solar system. Something had come in that no one had expected. My dad looked up and he just froze, like his mind just flipped on and he was lost. He would get like that.

That was the first time we saw the thing that everyone eventually called the Traveler.

<|endoftext|>

Vanguard Dare Cloak

I'm always surprised by the stuff that sticks in my memory.

Long day with Andal in the Cosmodrome, relieving Fallen of their extra stuff—I mean, we must have been out there for eight or ten hours, must have picked up at least a couple kilos of high-grade spinmetal—but I don't really remember any of that. I remember being across from Andal that night, with a fire between us, dead tired. 

When night rolled around on those trips, he'd get so quiet I used to think he'd fallen asleep. Thinking it all through, I guess. Lost in his own head.

I remember getting sick of hearing nothing but the fire, so I broke the silence. Said I really liked his cloak and was thinking that, one of these days, I just might steal it.

I remember the easy grin on his face when he said, "You'll have to peel it off my dead body."

"Great," I said. "Don't know if I've mentioned, but I got no problem looting a buddy's corpse. Waste not, want not, I always say. Besides, you'd want me to have it."

We laughed about that.

It's funny what you remember.

<|endoftext|>

Neoteric Kiyot Cloak

Therin Vai is astounded by his own good luck.

After days of staggering through an inhospitable desert with nothing but his name, his Ghost, and his armor, he has found salvation in the form of a small band of friendly Risen. They welcome him into their lean little camp. They feed him: clean water, unseasoned rabbit, a tiny dipper of honey. They entertain him: rumors, jokes, an epic that takes more than an hour and a half to tell. These are the first Risen he has ever met, and he quickly decides he wants to be just like them.

There is one woman among them that stands out. Her skin is like his. As the fire dies down and people go off to sleep or stand watch, he finds an excuse to sit next to her. He is shy; he does not know what to say. As she chips dried viscera off the head of a maul as tall as she is, she glances up for a moment. "How long since you were rezzed?" she asks.

"Huh?"

"Sorry—since your friend woke you up." She juts her chin at his Ghost, then goes back to cleaning her weapon.

"Oh, uh..." He looks to Ghost.

"Six days," Ghost supplies.

"How long was he dead?" she asks Ghost. Therin turns to look, waiting for the answer. That question didn't even occur to him.

Ghost spins her shell, thinking. "It's hard to say exactly. Not long. Perhaps a month?" She nudges his cheek affectionately. "You were disgusting."

The woman nods thoughtfully, then reaches out to rub the corner of his cloak between thumb and forefinger.

"Why?" Therin asks after a moment.

"Never seen clothes like yours, is all," the woman shrugs. She lets go, looks back to Ghost. "You pull him out of a shipwreck, maybe?"

Ghost nods. "Yes."

Therin squints, puzzled. Seeing that, the woman points the end of her war hammer up to the sky. "You and me, we come from the same people. And those people are up there."

"Yeah? What do you know about them?"

The woman shakes her head. "Not much. I know that we must have left them for a reason. Don't worry about them so much." She pats his knee. "You gotta figure yourself out first. You know who you are?"

"Therin Vai," he says, confidently.

She smiles. "Therin Vai," she echoes, and the confidence in her voice makes the name sound more legitimate, more real, than when he shared it with just Ghost.

They fall quiet again. A log in the fire snaps.

"You think I can stay with you all?" he asks eventually, full of cautious optimism.

The woman looks at his tattered cloak, his knives, his lean build. He is not one of them, not by a long shot, and she knows it even if he doesn't yet—but he doesn't sense that judgment in her voice. He hears only kindness when she says, "Of course. Stay as long as you want."

<|endoftext|>

Vanguard Armor

The bar's still missing its roof, and the air smells like rain. 

Cayde-6 sits in the bar with his chair tipped, holding a shot of something acid green. He looks at you, counts the beads of sweat on Zavala's mug, and sighs. "Are we doing this, or what? C'mon, I'm rusting." 

Zavala straightens and clears his throat. "The Vanguard will continue until we are no longer needed, but I can foresee the day when you will…" He pauses, searching your face. 

The moment drags. Cayde juts his chin forward. Ikora hides a smile, then lifts her glass to you. "When you will surpass us." 

"Wait, what?" Cayde's chair drops heavily. He leans forward. "'Surpass' us? I didn't agree to that! This is a 'great job being a hero' party, not a 'Cayde is second-best' party." 

Ikora winks at you. "It's always been a 'Cayde is second-best' party."

<|endoftext|>

Frumious Cloak

"I used to ride the Light all around the system, doing my best to stay busy and stay away. Well I can tell you, contrary to popular opinion—and from personal experience—shacking up in the City's got its perks. And without the others looking out for us, we'd be running around tinkering with pea shooters and trying to fly those clunkers from the Cosmodrome, looking like a bunch a' dummies. 

"Look— the City needs you; you need it. I mean, have you seen the goods they're peddling these days? The ships Holliday's been putting up in the air? They got your back here.

"I'm hungry. Let's get some ramen." 

—Cayde-6

<|endoftext|>

Phobos Warden Mask

I

Zavala stared at the blank pages on his desk.

He sat with his back to the window. The Traveler shone brightly outside, but there was little warmth in its light. Since its reformation, Zavala found it strangely unfamiliar. Its size made everything else seem smaller somehow.

He shifted in his seat and tried to relax his shoulders. He reached up to rub his temples and found he was clenching his jaw. He stretched his neck and placed his palms flat on his desk. His hands were cold.

He knew where it ended, but he didn't know how to begin.

<|endoftext|>

Phobos Warden Grasps

II

Osiris walked into the office without hesitation, as if it were his own. Zavala looked up and pushed his blank papers to the side.

"Osiris," he said. "You don't seem to be taking your exile very seriously of late."

"I treat it with the same regard you give its enforcement," sniffed the Warlock as he crossed his arms.

Zavala raised his eyebrows but saw traces of a smile around Osiris's eyes. He leaned back in his chair and gestured for him to continue.

"I bring hope from an unexpected source," Osiris said. "There is a devotee of mine on Mercury—a certain Brother Vance—stationed just outside the Infinite Forest. His point of view is unique, but it may be more valuable than I had anticipated."

Osiris opened his hand and cast a small projection: a fleet of Pyramid ships.

"Since the Traveler's reformation, Brother Vance has been studying prophecies where such an event took place. He believes he has discovered a way to stop the Pyramids."

A spiderweb of trajectories crisscrossed the projection. There was a flash and the Pyramid ships melted into Osiris's palm.

Zavala leaned forward. "He found this by studying simulated realities?"

"Specifically realities where the Pyramids invade our system and the Traveler reforms," Osiris said. "In all the realities where the City survives, Brother Vance believes there is a common thread."

"I… know Vance," Zavala said carefully. "Can we put our future in his hands?"

Osiris bristled reflexively, but then made a reconciliatory gesture. "We have seen more than our share of tomorrows, wouldn't you agree? We have done so through the strength of our community." The Warlock laced his fingers together.

"Brother Vance, he is one man, true. But so were you. So was I. It would be unwise to dismiss what his future may hold."

<|endoftext|>

Phobos Warden Vest

III

The silence in Zavala's office was interrupted by a burst of static over the comms.

Asher Mir's nasal voice rang shrilly over the speakers. "Ikora was unavailable!" he said impatiently.

"Asher," Zavala said into his comms. "What have you got for me?"

"Oh, just some ravings about how best to handle the encroaching Pyramids, if that sort of thing is of any interest to the Vanguard," Asher said.

"Go on," said Zavala.

"I analyzed the paracausal shockwaves from the Traveler's recent inexplicable pulse. I believe I could assemble a machine that would allow us to render these malicious polyhedrons inert." Asher paused. "Vulnerable. Does that appeal to you?"

"How does it work?" Zavala asked.

Asher made a noise of deep dissatisfaction. "I could either build the machine or explain its purpose to you. Both would take equal amounts of time."

Zavala smiled. "Build your machine," he replied. "Is there anything you require of me?"

Asher considered for a moment. "No. I anticipated nothing more than your tacit approval, so I am already thrilled with this conversation," Asher said, not sounding thrilled. "I will do the same thing I always do: find answers. Then I will deliver them to you and you can use them to form some sort of plan. How does that sound?"

Zavala took a breath. "Agreeable."

"Very well. Do try to manage your enthusiasm," Asher said dryly. The signal went dead, and Zavala was once again alone in his office.

Zavala disconnected from the call and looked down at the blank pages in front of him. There was another burst of interference as the audio system squealed against a forced reconnection.

"Hm, and thank you," said Asher's voice over the speakers. "That will be all!"

<|endoftext|>

Phobos Warden Strides

IV

Deputy Commander Sloane sighed as she entered Zavala's office. She fell into the chair opposite his and waited for a moment, head down, elbows on her knees.

Finally she spoke: "Somebody's selling pretzels in the Hangar. They're all out now, but I could smell them when I docked."

Zavala leaned over his stack of blank papers. "They're very good," he confided. "They have little containers of beer mustard, too."

Sloane looked up and shook her head in disbelief. "I've been away too long," she said.

"It's good to see you," Zavala said. Sloane stretched out in the chair. She looked comfortable.

"Listen," he began. "You've held Titan against the Fallen for long enough, and I figured you could use a change of scenery. You've heard about the uprising on Europa. I'd be grateful for your expertise."

The woman sized him up. A smirk played across her chapped lips.

"You want me on the front lines again?" she asked. "Must be a very credible threat."

Zavala looked down. "I'd go myself if I could," he said. "We're being hit on all sides. I feel as though I'm just barely holding this system together." His mouth was tight, but his eyes were pleading.

Sloane leaned forward and placed her hand on his desk. "Don't worry," she said. "We've survived many horrors. We'll survive this one, too."

<|endoftext|>

Phobos Warden Cloak

V

There was a soft knock on the door and a technician tentatively poked his head inside the office. "The system is ready, Commander."

Zavala looked across his desk. No echo of the past called out to him, no guilt-driven daydream—just a young man from the City, nervous about disturbing the commander.

Zavala rose to his feet. He stood and braced himself against the desk for a long moment, arms wide. He took a steady breath and nodded.

The technician synced the office systems and initiated a broadcast, then stepped to the side as Zavala approached.

"Sir," he whispered urgently, gesturing to the neat stack of pages left behind on the desk. "Your speech."

Zavala left the papers where they were and began to speak.

"People of the Last City. Humanity has endured a devastating blow…."

<|endoftext|>

Seventh Seraph Cowl

Chapter 1: Out for Delivery

Voronin nearly dropped the munitions he was carrying, which would have been a disaster for everyone in the vicinity. Certainly not as bad as whatever calamity they were prepping for, but bad enough to warrant the panic that coursed through his body. He hated these kinds of assignments.

"Hey, Morozova!" Voronin called out to his ranking officer between heavy gasps. "Any idea where all these are going?"

Morozova carefully placed her container on the ground, as if she was laying a child to bed. "No clue. Word just came from on high to double-time it, though. Something about Titan has got everyone spooked."

Voronin removed his helmet and wiped the sweat from his brow. Titan? What the hell happened out there? Comms had been spotty and the orders that did get through were light on details: Procure munitions. Transpo munitions to coordinates provided. Stockpile munitions. Repeat. No HMMWVs either. This was meant to be low profile, staying off the roads.

Where was all this firepower going, and what were we going to do with it when it got there? Voronin picked up his container and his pace.

He trudged just shy of a click behind Morozova for what felt like hours. These containers were cumbersome and it was the height of the driest summer he could remember.

When they reached their destination, they received a cursory greeting from Bykov, who was busy compiling a list of all the deliverables. Two soldiers, whom Voronin didn't recognize, were placing the containers in the mouth of a shaft that protruded from the ground. One punched in a command and the shipment vanished below the surface with a hollow pneumatic "whoomp."

"Where does that go?" Voronin asked. Bykov's brows drew together and his expression hardened. He returned to his list.

"Ready for the next round?" Morozova posed with more spunk than Voronin could muster in a year.

"If we must."

The sky grew gray, and clouds formed overhead as they left. Procure, repeat.

<|endoftext|>

Seventh Seraph Grips

Chapter 3: For a Friend

Voronin found cover under uprooted trees and demolished vehicles as he made his way through the catastrophic weather. He could hardly believe he was still alive, bearing witness to the end of all things.

The storm encompassed the station, under siege from the elements. Civilians were being ushered toward the SMILE pods in droves as the lightning made its presence felt, igniting a nearby fuel supply. The explosion tore into the group, and as Voronin turned his head from the horror and the heat, he saw her. Roughly 250 meters away from the station. Morozova lay, singed and smoking, under rubble and ash.

Voronin pulled up his sensorium, but the electromagnetic fields in the air reduced it to static. There was no way to know if she was still alive or salvageable. She had treated him with respect despite outranking him, and she had been there for him when his marriage went to hell—

"We're all dead anyway," he thought and ran to her through the maelstrom of lightning and wind.

And then he was there, pulling off his gloves and wiping ash and blood from her face, as the storm bore down upon him.

As he made peace with his mortality, just shy of 82 years old, the storm around them calmed. The lightning stopped. The wind died. At the station, the civilians' eyes were fixed on the sky, though Voronin was looking only at Morozova. She was breathing, barely. Her eyes opened and met his. A half-smile came across her lips, then froze as her eyes went past him and widened in awe.

Voronin turned and found himself staring into the face of God.

<|endoftext|>

Seventh Seraph Vest

Chapter 2: Crashes

The first bolt of lightning sent static up Voronin's arm and filled the atmosphere around him with a pungent chlorine-like smell. His hand went to his chest without thinking, as if to make sure he was fully intact. His gaze shifted as a second bolt hit the ground near him, then another. He had never seen lightning so close before. Stunned, he stood his ground; while part of him knew he should be frightened for his life, he was more perplexed than afraid.

There was no rain. He looked toward the horizon, expecting clouds, expecting something, and only saw a shimmering curtain of blue lightning sifting toward him.

He raced for shelter in the surrounding field, abandoning his munitions container in the dust kicked up by his fevered stride. The strikes razed the ground, sparking wildfires and scorching stone. There was no logic to their timing, with bolts crashing so frequently, the sound of the thunder couldn't catch up.

He'd lost Morozova in the commotion. Already drained from hours spent hauling cargo, his mind recessed into primal instinct. RUN.

So he ran, doing his best to avoid the apocalypse that surrounded him. A call came through his earpiece as the ground quaked beneath him: "… auxiliary evac station…" was all he could make out before a roar of thunder swallowed the transmission.

He knew he needed to head west toward the station. The wind picked up and blew him off his feet, and again he felt a moment of sheer amazement at the storm's sudden ferocity. He hit the ground hard and checked his sensorium. It was scrambled from all the sinuous electricity undulating through the air, but he could just barely make out his compass. West. He ran.

<|endoftext|>

Seventh Seraph Strides

Chapter 4: Face to Face

Voronin's mouth hung agape. His lungs forgot how to breathe. His heart rate accelerated, his stomach turned, and he weakly wondered if this was his transition to the afterlife. Somehow he found his footing and stood.

The Traveler, they called it. He had heard the stories from throughout the system, but never did he think he would live to see it. Now it was as though it was seeing him.

He took a step forward as if it would bring him closer to the oblate spheroid in the sky above him. He stumbled. The ground had gotten so hot under him, the rubber on his boots had melted. A banal thought cut through his awe—"Now I look like a fool in front of the Traveler"—and he was ashamed.


The sound of cracking thunder still echoed in the distance. That was when he noticed he was in the eye of the storm. It was wailing all around him, but calm in his general circumference. Surely this was the Traveler's doing. The great savior. He grabbed Morozova, unsure of how long this would last, and brought her to her feet. She was badly injured, bleeding from a wound on her leg.

"Stay with me." He said to Morozova and the Traveler at once. Only one of them listened. The Traveler was on the move, and the storm was returning.

<|endoftext|>

Seventh Seraph Cloak

Chapter 5: Abhorrent Imperative

Voronin tied his armband tight around her calf to cut off the blood flow from Morozova's gaping wound. He tried to keep her leg clean while the wind caked them with dirt and debris. Lightning was drawing closer. The sterile scent of ozone had returned and he knew he didn't have much time. "COME BACK!" he shouted hopelessly to the God. He hoisted Morozova up, supporting her on his shoulder, and pushed back against the elements that were conspiring against him.

It was 250 meters to the evac station. Every step was a battle of attrition. At this point, the thought of coldsleep sounded comforting. He just had to make it to the SMILE pods. The storm had other plans. A nearby HMMWV was struck by a wayward bolt and the explosion threw them back. He felt Morozova torn from his side as he landed, and the sound of his skull hitting stone was louder than the thunder had been. As blackness crept into his vision, he saw the Traveler in the sky, moving away, abandoning him.

…and then he was being dragged from the wreckage and violence onto a gurney. "…Morozova?" he struggled out. He was met with an oxygen mask. His eyes darted, in search of some sign that Morozova was alive. Voronin couldn't decipher anything out of the pandemonium around him. "I'm sorry," he thought to himself while cursing the orb in the sky for deserting him.

The last thing he remembered before they placed him into coldsleep was an explosion in the sky so bright it blinded him.

<|endoftext|>

Holdfast Cloak

"Uldren?" Jolyon Till gently prompted his oldest friend. The normally sharp Awoken prince had drifted off again.

Uldren snapped back to reality with a shake of his head. "Is that… Yes. Wind 17 kph from your six o'clock. One degree off spin-north." Uldren squinted downrange, as if peering into the sun. Jolyon frowned. The sun was behind them.

This was the first time he and Uldren had been to the range since their return from the Black Garden, and Jolyon was shocked by how hollowed-out his friend looked. Jolyon couldn't quite put his finger on what had changed, but there was definitely something new in Uldren's eyes. Something terribly familiar.

"Sending it." Jolyon pulled the trigger and missed by thirty meters. That's how far the calculations had shifted during his moment of hesitation. Jolyon grimaced.

"Nice shot," Uldren muttered, "you always were the best."

Jolyon didn't even bother to hide his concern. It was clear that Uldren was also plagued by the nightmares. The nocturnal visions Jolyon dared not mention aloud. The grotesque beating heart, mangled by Vex technology, slimy with overripe pulp, thorny wires reaching outward. The wet mechanical thump of the dark beating heart, the thick beating heart—

Jolyon snapped to. He had been drifting. He looked up to find the Awoken prince squinting down at him, as if trying to spot something in the distance. Something barely visible and receding further by the day.

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Mask

I

"Welcome, my wily new friend. Your compatriots spoke quite highly of you. Your propensity for… live capture."

"My compatriots gab." Gaelin-4's eyes flickered from Fallen, to Spider, to Fallen before lingering on a man in the back-shadowed wall to Spider's left. "I guess as long as they're all good words, it's fine."

"Better to be spoken of than not at all, no?" Spider touched curled fingers to his rebreather as if to block his tiny inhalations of anticipation.

Gaelin-4 heard shifting at his back and spotted two associates leaning against the wall behind him. They sported Wire Rifles and Short Daggers on their harnesses. "Depends… This bounty from Arrha; mark is a month in the wind."

Laughter blustered from the hulking Eliksni's mouth. "Your ilk, always so direct. Down to business. I like that… that acumen." The Spider gestured forward with his lower arms, and an associate plunked a small metal crate before Gaelin-4. "I assure you, they are still very much in the neighborhood."

The associate unclasped the lid. Two Golden Age era bottles of amber liquid nestled in padded cloth glistened in the lair's uneven lighting. The shadowed man behind Spider bent forward for a better view.

Gaelin-4 approached and lifted the craft-glass bottle. "For me?" He asked with a smirk. "This must be a crap job."

"Directly from my private selection. A motivation to return my quarry, alive—in addition, of course, to a generous Sapphire Wire reward."

"'Motivation' suggests they wouldn't cooperate if asked."

"Oh, I'm sure they would… if they were able." Spider leans forward. "You're hunting a Wrathborn."

Gaelin-4's head tipped upward to meet Spider's gaze. "Why don't you just send your Enforcer after it?"

"A man only has so many hours in the day. Attention is required elsewhere, and this is a personal matter." The syndicate boss turned each of his four hands over one after the other. "However, you will be using an invention of his. Clever, but keep that to yourself. Compliments get away from him."

"Alive?" Gaelin-4 turned the bottle in his hand.

"That's right. This particular mark caused irreparable damage to something very close to my benevolent heart. Restitutions are in order." Spider brandished a jagged, shivering smile.

"And I need your flunkies stepping on my heels?"

"Assisting you. Nivviks and Vynriis know the details and have experience in these matters. They will take you to the site of the attack."

 "I hear you folk empty your marbles when you get too close to those things."

"This particular mark has begun to wander to greener pastures. No cryptolith in sight."

Gaelin-4 bobbed his head, processing the information. "Keep your wire. I want the beast whelp."

Spider's bristled momentarily as he considered the terms. "That wouldn't be fair, but I could live with it— if you tell me who dropped you that little crumb."

"When the job's done and tender exchanges hands, I will."

"Keeping me in suspense; I'm not a patient Spider."

"I don't expect to be long." Gaelin-4 leaned toward his tagalongs, dropping words for the Fallen to pick up. "You're with me, Dreglings."

Nivviks hissed and said something in Eliksni to Vynriis before moving. She nodded to Spider and shouldered her rifle, then fell in line.

The Exo's eyes flicked to the man in the shadows. "Exile," he said, bending his head in a courteous nod.

"Mind your business, Guardian." The man's voice was even and measured. "And good luck."

Gaelin-4 smiled, took his Transfiguration from the doorman. "Osiris," he muttered under his breath as he crossed the exit. "I knew it."

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Grasps

II

"Not sure I needed you two to find this." Gaelin-4 dismounted his Sparrow. He pulled down his hood and drew Transfiguration to his eye. The cindering wreckage of an exploded ground transport was marred with dull green spinnerets of thin smoke. Warped metal littered the site, which consisted of a compacted road surrounded by craggy outcroppings of rock. The transport itself was pried open and half-full of melted slag. Cooling runs of igneous magma drooped through still-molten floor of the transport. He surveyed the frantic scuttling footprints throughout the area.

The two Fallen with him cut their Pike engines and sat waiting for the Guardian to make a move. Each Pike toted a small package of supplies: Nivviks with Lure and extract. Vynriis with Ether and extra ammunition cells. Both carrying multiple Web Mines.

Gaelin-4 slung his rifle and looked to the Fallen. Nivviks gestured forward with his dominant arms. "After you, yes?"

The Exo made his way into the site. The two trappers followed.

"Security unit." Nivviks held up a frame's head. "Bad job."

"How aggressive have you made them? Anything that would incite the Wrathborn to move away from its shrine?"

Nivviks pried an eye from the frame's socket and pocketed it. "Insight? No, recorder is broken." The Fallen chittered with laughter and let the head clunk in the dirt.

Vynriis snickered. The Exo was not amused.

"It's an oddity to stray from their shrine, savvy? Something drew it out." Gaelin looked to Vynriis.

"Yes, but," Vynriis formed the words with care, "territorial expansion."

"Not so set in ways as Guardians," Nivviks said, walking passed Gaelin-4. "Age makes them bolder—it would seem."

Gaelin ignored the preceding remark. "There are newer retreads in the tracks," he said, tracing freshly overturned dirt against old torrefied patches. "It has returned before. It will again."

"Oh? The Guardian thinks this?" Nivviks looked to the transport's melted chassis.

"The Guardian does. Predators mark new territory with a kill. It'll be back; make sure no one challenged their claim. Try to keep up, Spiderling."

"I will." Nivviks craned his neck to peer into the burst transport. "Soulfire, I smell it."

"Is that what your boss was transporting? Could have caused the explosion."

 "No," Vynriis's response was quick and sharp. "Exotic flora."

"You speak too freely!" Nivviks chastised her in Eliksni. He quickly contorted his face into a smile toward Gaelin-4 before switching languages. "It is private matter, yes? Sensitive. No questions."

"Motive is important." Gaelin's eyes flicked between the two Fallen.

"No. Only capture is important."

"Fine. At any rare, no flower survived this." The Exo knelt in the dirt and unfurled his fingers into an open palm. "Old blood here, but no bodies."

A Ghost materialized and silently scanned the stained ground. "Fallen. Traces of Ether and… Cabal oil?"

Gaelin turned to his escorts. "There were associates on this convoy?"

"Always…" Nivviks eyed Gaelin's Ghost as it dematerialized into the Exo's hand.

Vynriis nudged Nivviks and spoke. "They take bodies. Don't know why." She added, "Cabal oil unexpected."

"Rumor is Calus has a ship snagging Scorn from the Reef. You're sure it was Wrathborn?"

"Assuredly," Nivviks said, locking eyes with Gaelin-4. "Good riddance to Scorn."

"Cabal're just as susceptible as you are."

"It would seem, yes…" Nivviks crouched near Gaelin.

"Camp?" asked Vynriis as she joined the huddle.

Gaelin nodded. "Build a fire… and plant the Lure."

"Trap instead?" Vynriis looked to Nivviks. "Why we're here. No surprise with fire."

"Let me worry about that. Just build the fire."

Nivviks stood. "Build yourself, Light-wielder."

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Vest

III

Dust whipped across the Tangled Shore as nebulous clouds rolled and torrented overhead. It wasn't clear to Gaelin-4 where exactly wind was generated in the Reef, but it howled just the same. The three huntsmen lay on tattered mats in the dirt, backs to each other and the sky, in a triad. From two of their backs: matte black quills bent in the wind. The third's back was shrouded under a faded tan cloak, tent-poled by the quiver extending from his Orpheus Rig hip plate. Their vehicles: lashed down under camouflaged covers.

Shimmering flames licked the interior of the burnt-out transport. The engine oil they used for fuel turned the blaze a violet hue.

"I'll draw it to the Void tether. Once it's snared, we can spring your Arc-cage."

"The Guardian does not want Web Mines? Highly effective." Vynriis gestured to her covered Pike.

"I don't need anything exploding while I'm securing the cage."

"If the Guardian says so," Nivviks replied, checking the bolt on his Wire Rifle.

"Just don't shoot me in the back."

"If the Guardian says so…"

Gaelin-4 sighed. "Enough shop."

Hours of night drift by slowly. The violet fire began to burn down.

"Does the Guardian enjoy Spider's employment?"

"I'm a freelancer. Payment is my employer, not Spider."

"Likewise," Vynriis said cheerily. "Somewhat…"

"Oh yeah? He pay you well?"

"Well enough," Nivviks replied. "Work well, pay well. Start your own work."

"And Spider supports that sort of entrepreneurial spirit?" Gaelin-4 asked.

"Payment flows upward, and the Spider looks elsewhere. All is made well," Nivviks said.

"Do you know who that man back there was, in your Spider's lair?"

 "No," Vynriis answered.

"Do not care." Nivviks added.

"Osiris. You should know. Ever heard of Six Fronts?"

"Many times, from Guardians who speak of little else than their victories." Nivviks adjusted his posture.

"I think I can speak to it. I was there," said Gaelin.

"I was not," interjected Vynriis. "Vynriis knows only the Shore."

"Do they tell you all Fallen died that day? No Guardians? Convenient," Nivviks cackled.

Gaelin-4 rolled to his side to look at Nivviks. "You saying otherwise?"

Nivviks turned to face him. "Yes. I remember the fronts. I remember Red War. I remember Earth. I remember Riis. I remember before the Great Machine lifted you up."

Vynriis listened to the two without moving.

"You're older than I thought. I'm sure you'd agree things were simpler then. You knew who was good, and who was bad. I miss those times. Now… it's a mess."

"Simple?" Nivviks laughed in Gaelin's face. "Life was never simple, but suffering makes the mind narrow. Changes what we see. Survival makes many enemies. We know this truth."

"Alive for so long. You killed your fair share of our people," Gaelin said bluntly.

"And you, ours," Nivviks replied. "Now we are not killing. Is this not simple?"

Gaelin thought for a moment. "Past can be hard to forget."

"Yes, but Guardians have the gift of time," Vynriis said quietly.

"Your heroes, our nightmares," Nivviks said. "Osiris. We had a different name. He is… not so intimidating now."

"I wouldn't say that to his face. You should be thanking him." Gaelin-4 rolled back to his original position.

"Thanking today, cursing at the fronts. Perspectives change, yes?" Nivviks said, rolling back as well.

"I guess. Without Osiris, we could be on a completely different timeline… or worse."

"Yes… this one is preferable. Many prosper. No problems here."

 "You being sarcastic?"

"If the Guardian says so."

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Strides

IV

Vynriis was the first to spot movement. Twenty meters, against the horizon. A lumbering hulk of muscle and high-density Cabal plating indolently ascended a stone column in her firing line. It huffed air deeply, leapt forward, and impacted the ground with dead-weight grace on two armored trunks. The tremor ran through her bones.

The trio swapped to close-band comms. "Beast in sights."

Gaelin-4 and Nivviks slowly crawled to her side, taking care not to draw attention in the quiet night. The beast was Cabal all right, red-paint-scraped armor of the Legion buckled against an outpouring of muscle and blistering flesh. From its back and stomach, bladed tendril mutations slithered through gaps in the armor. Its hands were fused in an ever-grip around two massive cleavers that ploughed trenches in the soil as it trundled toward the flames.

"It appears… abnormal for a Wrathborn," Vynriis noted.

"Old. Perhaps one of the first. An escapee of the Crow's?" Nivviks mused. "Preventable. Spider will be displeased."

The Wrathborn Gladiator tore into the wrecked transport. Licks of flame seared its exposed meat without notice, and remnant oil set the Gladiator's cleavers alight in patches.

"I'll handle this. Excuse me." Gaelin-4 stood and strode directly toward the Wrathborn. It lurched to face him and loosed a tortured bellow. Gaelin snapped a smoke bomb into his hand with a flicker of Void Light and flung it into the Wrathborn's mouth. After a muted pop, dull purple smoke poured from its head, and the Wrathborn reeled in the fumes; bloodcurdling shrieks cast plumes of smoke like clouds against the starry backdrop.

Gaelin knelt and shouldered Transfiguration. He sent four heavy Arc rounds that cracked splits in the Wrathborn's helm. It howled and stampeded towards him; tendrils lance-hooked into the dirt to rip its body forward faster. It tripped the Shadowshot he had set. Void Light tethered the Wrathborn, anchoring it at the core of its existence. The beast whiplashed and lost its footing; face struck floor—shattering its helmet.

 The mad thing rose, smoke billowing from its nostrils like a hellion. It wrenched with every fiber of strength, veins bursting to break.

"Keep pullin' like that and you'll tire yourself out." Gaelin-4 sauntered around the Wrathborn, darting stake-points into the ground to form the Arc-cage's cornerstones. He pulled the third from his belt when he felt something snap within him. It broke the Void tether?

From the dying smoke launched a tendril. He ducked it and saw the fiery blade just quick enough to roll over it and into invisibility. He flicked another smoke bomb into his hand and struck the beast between the eyes. It flailed and sent tendrils in his direction. Gaelin rolled back and came up, rifle forward. He dropped the first two and began to reposition when the ground erupted beneath him. A tendril pierced his thigh and dangled him in the air as two more drove at his head and chest. He cracked a spike grenade against his knee. The stick sputtered and beamed with Void Light. He severed the oncoming tendrils with the beam, and they gushed soulfire like a fissured dam.

The torrent incinerated the grenade and half of Gaelin-4's right arm. His rifle fell. Before the thought to reach became action, the Wrathborn slammed the Exo to the floor and pinned his leg. Gaelin's breath tremored. It raised its horrid cleavers. He drew Lonesome from under his cloak and shot the thing in the eye. It cast him across the site and through a stony point protruding from the ground. Shards of broken rock cascaded around the Guardian. Gaelin clutched a puncture in his chest, a barb of stone protruded from it. The throw had shattered his hip. He was unable to stand, and it was getting dimmer. A shadow in his vision. Lightning wires overhead. Pressure.

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Cloak

V

Gaelin-4 inhaled sharply. He sat up and flexed his limbs.

His ghost floated before him. "It was a lucky hit."

"Aren't they all?" Gaelin stood and brushed himself off. "Appreciated, Clip."

"Wire Rifles made it run before things got too bad." The Ghost dipped in a nod and dematerialized.

"Before?" Gaelin-4 turned around. Nivviks and Vynriis sat several paces away in pensive observation. "Those rifles jam or something?"

"Guardian requested to handle situation." Nivviks clacked his jaw. "Went as intended, yes?"

Gaelin glared at Nivviks, but the Fallen simply stepped forward and offered a hand to help him stand.

"Kept the Guardian's body from being dragged away. Saved pretty rifle," Vynriis said, placing Transfiguration in the Exo's hands.

Gaelin's glare relaxed as he locked eyes with Vynriis and conferred a mute look of thanks.

"Quarry is on the move. Unwise to return to an expecting Spider with empty hands." Nivviks took a long breath from an Ether canister. "What will the Guardian do?"

"How long was I out?"

"Not long… minutes," Vynriis replied.

Gaelin closed his eyes and concentrated. He felt his prey still tethered to his Light, marked by traces of the Void. Nivviks was right: it was close. "We hunt."

"Ah…" Nivviks stood. "Fortunate that we wounded Wrathborn," he said, pointing to a trail of fluid.

Gaelin-4 looked to the dim afterglow of the quenched fuel fire, to the fresh trail before them. "I defer to you, old timer."

"Good… yes. Try to keep up," Nivviks chittered. He pulled a transponder from his belt. "Tracking shot. Useful. Not far on Pikes… or flimsy Guardian bird."

Gaelin-4 mounted his flimsy Guardian bird. "By all means, lead."

They followed the trail in silence. Nivviks led, then Gaelin-4, then Vynriis. They had encircled him like a tenderfoot calf. He had underestimated the Wrathborn's resilience. Made a fool of himself to show up a couple Fallen on a dead rock—but a breakage heals stronger if it's set right.

They closed the distance quickly. The Wrathborn's lair was a small cave hovel with a bend just passed the entrance. He could almost see the creature's breath through the stone, feel its movements.

"Does the Guardian wish for Web Mines?" Vynriis held a mine out to Gaelin sheepishly.

Gaelin took it. "Let's line the entrance, Vynriis."

"How many?"

"All of them. We overwhelm it at the choke, then tether and spike it down."

Nivviks nodded. "Draw it out. We will keep its tails from killing you… again."

"Appreciated. Guess I'll be bait."

Gaelin-4 entered the cave and saw the Wrathborn caressing a tendril rooted in its back. Before it, a shrine of black twisted spines. They had begun to harden and gain a translucent metallic sheen, increasingly stained by drippings as his eye wandered higher. The missing associates hung impaled at their apex as tarnished crowns. The spines fed upon them, and Gaelin could see the planted stems weaving together at the base. The Wrathborn yanked the tendril from its back and planted it. They quivered. A hint of a voice. Gaelin would look upon them no longer.

He formed a vortex of Void in his palm and slung it beneath the Wrathborn. It stumbled backward as the grenade burned away. Behind it, the Fallen bodies disintegrated, but the spires remained unscathed and thirsty. The Wrathborn turned to pursue him, ripping at the ground, ceiling, and walls for holds.

The Guardian ran and dove over a line of Web Mines at the cave mouth. He cloaked as the Wrathborn was barraged by their spheres of Arc disruption.

Nivviks and Vynriis pelted the beast with Wire Rifle shots, fending off tendrils and drawing attention from Gaelin-4. The Guardian nocked a Void-Light bolt and cast his Shadowshot into the Wrathborn's chest, drawing its limbs in with crushing gravity. The trio drew Arc-cage stake-points and flung them into position around the incapacitated Wrathborn. As the last stake made connection, the Arc-cage sprung and shocked the beast into unconscious submission.

Morning light trickled over the horizon as the three finished tying down the cage for transfer.

"Better this time," Nivviks croaked. "Cave is unsettling."

"Web Mines were a good idea," the Guardian replied. He sighed. "I strongly advise you demo that cave."

"Agreed. I will call for a Ketch." Nivviks stepped away, shouting back, "Enjoy your liquor and whelp."

Gaelin-4 smirked.

Vynriis checked the cage's seals and looked to Gaelin. "What will the Guardian call his War Beast?"

"Castus."

"A good hound."

<|endoftext|>

Praefectus Mask

Cau'tor smiled as his daughter walked ahead, dragging her hand across the soft filaments of the valac blooms. Bioluminescent pollen swirled in her wake, barely visible in the glow of sundown. Cau'tor closed his eyes and inhaled deeply, reveling in the heady scent that marked the beginning of the wet season.

"Why did you bring me here?" his daughter asked. Even as she spoke, Cau'tor pictured her from memory: a small child frolicking in brightly colored robes. He opened his eyes and saw a full-grown warrior in a towering battlesuit.

He gestured towards the plated broadsword stowed on her hip. "The scribes said you fought ferociously in sparring this morning."

"My blade is insatiable," she replied, brandishing the weapon and playfully pointing it at her father. Her smile diminished slightly. "You could have seen it yourself."

Cau'tor did his best to hide a wince. "I will soon enough, Ta'nam."

Ta'nam sheathed the blade. Dried grass and petals crunched under Cau'tor's sabatons as he met his daughter and placed a hand on her shoulder.

"So what's this about—a reminder of home on the eve of battle?" Ta'nam asked.

Her father scoffed. "Do you really need reminding?"

Ta'nam grimaced. "I miss it every day."

"We all do," her father said with a heavy sigh. "No, I wanted you to have one last chance to see it with your own eyes."

Ta'nam turned, her brow furrowed. "Last chance?"

"Enough," Cau'tor called out. A low rumble resonated through their bones and the world shifted. Distant mountains undulated and stretched towards the sky; flowers burst into clouds of wriggling bubbles. The world blurred as light and matter drained like viscous fluid towards a growing rift in the sky—a shadow that grew until it consumed them.

They woke aboard the Barbatos Rex, still streaming through the stars. Their hands were clasped around the handle of a rusted antique blade. A Psion stood nearby as the last spectral tendrils of psionic energy connecting the three of them dissipated.

Cau'tor nodded at the Psion. "Leave us."

"I don't understand," Ta'nam said as soon as they were alone.

Cau'tor held the blade up. "Four generations ago, this weapon earned our family's place in the empire. Its history makes it a strong locus for the mind-walk." He studied the knife carefully, testing its weight distribution. "But history is a luxury of the victor."

Cau'tor took the weapon in both hands and broke it in half, grinding the brittle material in his gauntlets.

Ta'nam recoiled slightly. "Father…"

"The world this came from is gone," Cau'tor continued. "Home is no longer behind us. It is ahead in the distance, past a towering mountain, and over a great sea."

Ta'nam nodded. "We are Cabal. We eat the mountains, and drink the seas."

Cau'tor leaned forward. "But you cannot do this if your hunger is sated by indulgent reverie. So we will never walk these thoughts again."

Ta'nam stiffened. "I understand."

"Sol is a graveyard for our people. But those warriors never watched our cities burn in soulfire. The memory of home should not be a comfort, my child, but the wound that drives your blood frenzy."

Ta'nam nodded, but the knot in her gut forced her to speak. "Do you fear them, Father? The Sol warriors?"

Cau'tor smiled proudly, and took his daughter's hand. "I do not, my child. Because I fight with Ta'nam, and her blade is insatiable."

<|endoftext|>

Praefectus Grips

//A MESSAGE FROM EMPRESS CAIATL OF THE CABAL, TO ALL LEGIONARIES IN SOL//

Warriors of the empire: the Imperial Crown calls to you.

Ghaul failed us, and the Red Legion paid the price in blood. You have been scattered and abandoned, hunted by our enemies as you yearn for home… but Torobatl is no longer ours.

The combined fleet of the empire has entered Sol space. Come back to us, our comrades and kin. Rejoin our ranks, and help me mend this fractured empire. Through honor and strength, we will write the next chapter in our empire's storied history, and—

//

The Centurion flipped a switch and silenced the comm device. She peeked out of the cavern's makeshift scrap-metal door and saw asteroids drifting over the Shore like sleeping goliaths in a lavender sea.

Screeb chitters echoed through the air, grabbing the Centurion's attention. She snapped the door shut and readied her Slug Rifle, listening as the sound swelled. When silence finally returned, she crumpled against the wall and wearily dropped her weapon. The gun had been issued in her family's name and bathed in her brother's blood. Now it was a fading memento, lying in the dust beside a vigil of empty helmets.

The message played over again in her mind and she snarled. A crown. A gauntlet. A chalice. Nothing more than metal tortured with heat and molded into something else. Into someone else's vision. What had the empire molded her into? The low moan of some ancient cable resonated through her pressure suit, now comically oversized for her atrophied muscles.

She swung her gauntlet and crushed the comm device for good measure. Thresher engines roared in the distance, the sound of countless Legionaries answering the call. She hunkered down and fell into a deep slumber.

<|endoftext|>

Praefectus Cuirass

"Hail, warrior of the empire," Empress Caiatl said as she approached the bedside of a wounded Red Legion Centurion. The soldier had been gazing solemnly out a porthole when the sound of her voice startled him. He turned suddenly, then winced in pain. Caiatl saw darkened synthetic fabric enveloping his torso and the entirety of his right arm, which itself looked frail and withered. She knew immediately that this Cabal would see no more battles.

"My empress!" the warrior responded, clasping a fist to his chest with his unwrapped arm. Caiatl saluted in return.

The empress glanced at a monitor displaying the patient's data. "Val'ast, born of Val'tui." She looked out the porthole; the brilliance of Sol beamed back at her. "The empire has returned for you, Red Legionary, yet your heart seems heavy. Why do you languish?"

Val'ast looked away. "I am sorry, Empress."

"Do not be sorry, my brother," Caiatl said.

Val'ast sighed. "For years, every day has been about survival. Just trying to stay in the fight. But now…" He trailed off and grasped the sheets of his bed, a cheap fabric but still softer than anything he'd felt in years.

"When you war for so long, peace can become its own struggle," Caiatl said.

Val'ast let the fabric fall from his hand. "I thought I was Acrius reborn, claiming another sun for our kind." He gazed out the porthole. "But I failed."

Caiatl smiled. "I've always loved that tale." She pulled a stool over and sat. "Did you know that there used to be more to it?"

Val'ast shook his head.

"It's an older version, not as popular in modern times, but I was lucky enough to learn it as a child," the empress continued. "Before Acrius, three warriors sought to climb a great mountain and grasp the sun, but a terrible beast stood in their way.

"The first tried to outwit the beast and sneak through the shadows, but the beast smelled him still and ate the warrior in a single bite.

"The second tried to escape the beast, crafting a device to harness the wind and soar upward. But the fickle wind changed its mind and tossed her into the beast's maw.

"The third warrior challenged the beast head on, Severus in hand. She also fell to the beast's gnashing teeth, but not before her blade tasted blood."

Val'ast frowned. "They all failed?"

Caiatl considered the question. "The first two, certainly. They thought battle could be avoided. But the third warrior died with pride and honor."

Val'ast pondered for a moment. "Even in defeat, she left her mark on her foe."

Caiatl nodded. "And the next time one of her kin faced it, the beast would be one blow closer to death."

"Did more come?" Val'ast questioned.

"Of course!" Caiatl exclaimed. "They were Cabal, and the sun was theirs to claim. Over and over, their mightiest fell. But each time, another wound was struck, until the day came when a warrior landed the final blow. That warrior was Acrius."

Val'ast frowned. "Ever since I was a child, I saw Acrius as a hero…"

"He may have been," Caiatl replied as she clasped Val'ast's hand in hers. "But so was the warrior who struck first."

Val'ast's eyed glistened as he held her grip firmly. "Thank you, Empress."

Caiatl shook her head. "My brother, it is the empire who thanks you."

<|endoftext|>

Praefectus Strides

(A burst of electricity shatters a tree, showering Nessus's vermillion fauna across the battlefield.)

Vatoc the Psion had been a coward before, and not even just once. As he braced behind a Vex tower and clutched his empty rifle, he recalled his legacy of hasty retreats.

He had run from Wire Rifle enfilades and soulfire barrages on the detritus flotillas of the Reef.

He had fled the relentless advance of the chronomatons, nearly boiling in his suit amidst mercurial deserts.

Most of all, he had run from the Light-infested husks, the undying Guardians of Sol. Time and again, he saved his own neck, only for the Legion to find a new assignment and cast him back into the fray; they knew he was weak, but with Legionaries falling in droves, there was no other choice.

(A roar sweeps through the canyon as a smoking Thresher tumbles end over end into oblivion.)

Vatoc bore no guilt over his survival; to a Psion, survival was all you had. There was no honor to be gained, no advancement within ranks, no wealth to be accumulated. All the Legion left you with was your life, and Vatoc was going to make sure it lasted as long as possible.

But that was before Ghaul had been melted down to atoms and scattered across the stars. Before the failed gambit with the Warlock's time device. Before the Almighty, gleaming triumph of the Legion, was tossed like a pebble and swatted aside by an indifferent god.

Now came Empress Caiatl, and with her, the promise of something Vatoc never imagined he would have: freedom. The full might of the empire had arrived in a cavalcade of frigates and carriers, filling the space between worlds with destructive power. For the first time in his life, Vatoc's choice was not merely just to survive, but a choice of what to live for.

(A Colossus barks a rallying cry; a cacophony of Slug Rifles echoes in response.)

The battle swelled around him and his compatriots fell. He could see the route to safety. Dark crevasses tucked between tepui where he could run and hide. Where he knew he could survive.

(Vatoc reloads his rifle and sings an oath to his empress.)

He had been a coward before, but no longer.

<|endoftext|>

Praefectus Cloak

// Cryptarchy Analysis Log R11320 — Stolen Cabal Data //

// Author — Master Rahool //

SUMMARY

What follows is a translation of a Cabal data file that was acquired as part of Operation Haystack, as ordered by Commander Zavala. This log focuses on a single file we were able to decrypt; for the full report on the contents of that data breach and further decryption attempts, please see log R11312.

Ostensibly, this file is a recipe for a dish to be served at some sort of official gathering in Caiatl's honor. The ingredients mentioned here have been seen in a variety of ancient Cabal texts, and analysis of the empire's economic history implies that they are considered cheap and undesirable. I believe this recipe is both old and born of the lower class, a case of poor laborers devising ingenious (yet challenging) ways to take unsold goods and turn them into something comforting and delicious. 

That Caiatl chose this as a main dish for an official gathering speaks to the optics she wants to present; she may be trying to differentiate herself from the opulence of the Calus era and the utilitarianism of Ghaul's rule by relating to the common folk of the empire. 

Note that decryption was only mostly successful, and some data degradation occurred. Cryptarch's comments are in-line for ease of understanding. Some translations remain ambiguous, but I've provided my best hypotheses.

// FILE START //— [CBX PARSER ERROR]

— [CBX PARSER ERROR] 

— [CBX PARSER ERROR] until the solvent mixture has blended together.

— Pulverize atlotl tendons until just pliable and surfaces begin to crack, then dredge in solvent mixture and let soak for [36–84 hours; the cycle referenced here is unknown, estimates are conservative guess].

— To make the [black cube], crush citrus mixture, then drain through a sieve. Discard juice, retaining pulp and bitter pith. Compress solids in [kitchen vice? unsure of translation] on maximum heat until block is [CBX PARSER ERROR] to touch and charred. Place in sunlit area to cure.

— Once tendons are soft and stretchy, remove from solvent and rinse in ocean water. Slice into ribbons and set aside.

— Take loin of Atlotl and hook to [rotating device] then slap against stone surface until fragrant.

— Cut loin into tetrahedrons, making sure to slice across all grains, and set aside.

— In a large cauldron, add water, shau'rac oil, and appropriate root mixture (based on season and year). Bring to boil, then add loin and tendons. Cook until [CBX PARSER ERROR] no longer float and fluid has an ochre sheen across the surface.

— [CBX PARSER ERROR] more hours, thickening until broth [CBX PARSER ERROR] off the back of a ladle.

— Serve with thick slices of the [black cube].

// FILE END //

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Mask

"A single moment of calm is all I need."

He drew his Gauntlet tight to his chest, and in his next breath, he was alone with his target.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Grips

"I am alight, but I will not be consumed."

The Splicer envisioned the fire in his hand, and he closed his fist around it.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Vest

"Even in the dark, I still feel the spark of life within me."

His Gauntlet roared as he drew a wide circle in the air, and the rains began to fall.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Strides

"Amidst the chaos, I am a reservoir of silence."

The Splicer focused on her breathing, seized a moment of quiet, and sent it billowing across the battlefield.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Cloak

// VANNET // CIVILIAN TERMINAL // ENCRYPTION ENABLED //

// TRANSMISSION ORIGIN: EUROPA //

// AUDIO CONVERSATION LOG—TRANSLATION MODULE ACTIVE //

// USER: @BOTZA-GUEST //

// USER: @EURFOB //

:: Thank you for using VANNET ::

:: Your conversation may be recorded ::

:: Connecting you with your party // EUROPA1@JOVIANFOB ::

----------

@BOTZA-GUEST: Light grace you. 

@EURFOB: Variks is relieved to hear you, Misraaks. You are there, beneath the Great Machine?

@BOTZA-GUEST: Yes. Without your assistance, we would never have survived the Vex attack.

@EURFOB: This is clear. And from this gratitude, you now speak in Human language during private correspondence? 

@BOTZA-GUEST: I follow custom, and I do not wish my hosts to think I hide my words from them.

@EURFOB: How gracious. But Vex attacking you when House Salvation did? Curious, yes?

@BOTZA-GUEST: I have not had much time to ponder it. 

@EURFOB:  How are the survivors? The hatchlings? Your daughter?

@BOTZA-GUEST: They are all well. Eido is excited beyond words. She has dreamed of this day, but never believed it would come.

@BOTZA-GUEST: Why did you not come with us?

@EURFOB: The Great Machine has no business with Variks. Besides, who would keep an eye on Eramis?

@BOTZA-GUEST: I thought she—

@EURFOB: Always the hatchling. Nothing is forever.

@EURFOB: We know this.

[long silence]

@BOTZA-GUEST: I must go, Variks. There is much to do. 

@EURFOB: Walk quietly in your own shadow, Misraakskel.

<|endoftext|>

Pathfinder's Helmet

NEW COVEN - I

Petra stood at the bordering cliff's edge of the Divalian Mists, wrapped in a concealing vapor. Beside her, Illyn, Techeun Coven Mother. A deluge of water spewed from deep within the stone below; gentle tremors rippled through their bodies without notice. The pure sky above them tore like well-worn fabric as fronds of malignant Taken growth crept into the Dreaming City.

"They will be upon us soon. It was not enough to simply halt Oryx's  advance," Petra said.

She had spent months of conversation building the kindling to an idea in Illyn's thoughts prior to the Battle of Saturn: a new Coven, a new class of sister recruits. Now, with the queen's flagship in ruins and the Coven missing several of its most skilled Techeuns, there was no longer the luxury of refusal.

"I can't hold the Reef with Corsairs alone. I can't search for the queen with looking glasses and a depleted armada. We need more Techeuns, Illyn. You know I'm right."

Illyn shook her head. "We are not weapons for the Queen's Wrath to command…"

The Coven's reluctance to forge the next link in the chain of their lineage was a strong one. Since the formation of Eleusinia and the exploitation of Riven, the Elder Techeuns had grown protective of their arts. Techniques and texts were kept close. Despite all that, Petra knew Illyn had always been listening to her words. She too had dreamt of the Harbinger's failure. Of Oryx Taking her sisters.

"…We will snap shut the Ley Lines and seal the city," Illyn concluded.

"No!" Petra  retorted. "The queen is lost and might still return." She turned to the Coven Mother. "Of your seven, how many are still alive?"

Petra felt a mournful flame stoking beneath Illyn's visor. "Precisely," Illyn said. "We haven't the strength."

"Then heed my requests." Petra waved away the mist between them. "Train more sisters."

Illyn finally broke her gaze with the sky and scowled at Petra. "We haven't the time. Training spans decades."

"Make. It. Work," Petra demanded before taking a breath and continuing. "Illyn, I will do whatever you need. Please, can we work through this together?"

Illyn's head sunk. She leaned over the cliffside—over the stream of plummeting mist—and watched the flow of water drop into endlessness. "Send me your candidates. I hope they are stronger than you were."

<|endoftext|>

Pathfinder's Grips

WAYFINDING - II

Ylaia placed her hands on the focusing crystal once more. It had been months since she had seen the stars. Her view every day was instead of the same stone chamber she shared with twelve others; it doubled as both training ground and lodging for a new crop of Techeuns. The mustiness made Ylaia crave the open air of the Dreaming City's skyward turrets.

She imagined them piercing the sky like masts and drawing the clouds into sails. In her mind, the whole city sailed through the Ascendant Ocean, navigating the Ley Lines like currents. Ylaia placed herself there: a voyage, a turret crow's nest in search of distant land, ascendant anchors restraining cloud-sail billows against the wind of her will.

She tried to introduce that place to this one, to let them meet and exchange atmosphere.

"Make this real," she thought… but it was nothing more than thought. The concepts were familiar, but the execution was still foreign. Ylaia adjusted the crystal in her hands, as if the orientation mattered. Of all her sisters, only she still couldn't shape the Ley Lines.

"They're going to shift soon, you know," Austyn chided.

"I know," Ylaia spat back without looking. An explosion shook the room, raining plumes of dust over them and breaking her concentration.

"Damn it!" Ylaia slammed a fist into the smooth stone and cast the crystal orb across the floor. "Why are we training in a war zone?"

Austyn watched the crystal skip to the edge of the chamber. "This place is built upon a crossroads of Ley Lines. If you can't align with them here…"

"Don't say it," Ylaia hissed as she stood to retrieve the crystal. "I need to try again."

As she walked, the wall before her illuminated and split into a doorway. Petra Venj entered the chamber, haggard, soot dulling the sheen of her armor. Ylaia stopped in her tracks. She hid away her embarrassment despite knowing that Petra hadn't seen her cast away the focusing crystal.

Petra's foot tapped the crystal. She bent and scooped it from the ground and looked to Ylaia's empty hands. "Do not lose this. There aren't many left."

"My apologies. I… I need to try again."

Petra scanned the faces of each of the thirteen would-be Techeuns before her. The creases beneath their eyes drew deeper from stress and lack of sleep. "I had trouble just the same. Let me show you."

<|endoftext|>

Pathfinder's Tunic

DURESS - III

Sjari shifted on the wooden operating table. Why must she be the first?

She probed the jelly-like substance smeared across her forehead as Elder Kalli entered the room.

"Don't touch that. It's an antiseptic… and a binding agent," Kalli said, placing a sizeable blue-crystal-adorned mask next to an assortment of scalpels, hooks, and erosion stencils on her back table. Each tool was etched with ceremonial iconography, and freshly sharpened.

"Normally, it takes years to become an Adept among our ranks… but the Queen's Wrath believes time is short. If you survive, these augments will expedite your training and enhance your abilities."

Kalli turned away to work a mortar and pestle. "You will need to learn to focus under duress. Remove your mind from this place. Sink into the cosmic, project out from yourself. There is no pain, no flesh, no nerves."

Sjari gripped the sides of the operating table and pressed her back flat, until no air existed between her and the surface beneath—until she felt herself a part of it. She told herself to ignore the grinding of the pestle and thought about how Petra had taught her to use the physical as a transitionary conduit to the Ascendant.

"Drink this," Kalli ordered, handing Sjari a small cup of queensfoil tea.

Sjari opened her eyes and released her grip as her meditation broke. "Yes, Elder sister. Give me a moment to focus, please," she pleaded, hastily gulping down the tea.

"You think my voice is sharper than this knife?" Kalli asked, lifting the scalpel from her back table. "Duress. You must push through it if you are to survive. Be strong, or you will die. This is your final test."

Sjari drank quickly and pressed herself to the table once more. She focused on her fingertips and the feel of the hand-worked wood. The grain formed diminutive pathways for her nails to trace; tiny patterns hidden away within the enormity that surrounded them, only revealed by shrinking one's perspective. She let herself drift.

Kalli threaded the thin metal edge directly through to the bone of Sjari's skull. A line of incision opened a wave of red. Searing penetration through the layers. Overwhelming electrified senses. They gave way to a calming sting in the discordant firing of nerves. A pattern. The texture. The split between what was and what could be.

In her mind's eye, Sjari saw the Ley Lines unfurl like budding petals of a living blossom. Nebula-like plumes of pollen. She let herself slip away until the pain of her flesh was only one of many choices before her.

<|endoftext|>

Pathfinder's Legguards

JOURNEY - IV

Austyn sat in silence with eyes shut. Ley Lines swept over her in waves—in pulses, which she slowly brought into alignment with her own. Entanglement. It was not the first time she had pressed herself into symbiosis with the Ascendant Plane. She'd been through the thoughts of all the sisters in her Coven. She had dreamt with Petra and harvested secrets from her, with the Queen's Wrath being none the wiser. Austyn knew they were meant to save Queen Mara Sov. They were meant to find her and restore the throne. She had been searching the Ley Lines for a path to the queen each night after her training.

Her Coven sisters lay sleeping all around her body, but her mind flew through countless panes of prismatic glass. As they shattered, she flittered from one plane to the next, catching momentary glimpses of incommunicable wonder.

In the distant cosmos far ahead, Austyn saw a darkened haze of indecipherable noise. Somewhere nestled in the Ley Lines, this shadowed spot was growing. Austyn knew Mara Sov was distant. She knew the queen had obscured herself from her enemies. Austyn had felt a presence reach from the noise toward the Dreaming City more than once. Tonight, she would reach back.

Austyn focused her will on a path to the distant noise and, as she did so, it was. The way was open, but still so far. She reached out with her physical body, placing a hand in the air before her and splitting the oxygen with her touch. She carved a slit in reality, through the molecules of the air, and the path anchored to it at her command.

The noise descended upon her, and instantly, she was at the precipice.

Hand pressed, frozen, paralyzed, and awash in insidious whispers that shredded the doorway into open nothing.

It tore her consciousness across the cosmos to a grand terrace of onyx swords and emerald flame reigning over a red harbor. Fingers reached like blades from distant hollows. Screaming noise upon noise. A lone figure stood on the terrace aside two empty thrones. Testing. Prodding. Tasting. Breeding war.

"Austyn!" A familiar voice pried her back into the waking world. "Austyn, are you all right?"

She woke, soaked in sweat and heat. Petra Venj stood over her, gripping her shoulders.

Austyn struggled to breathe. Her eyes met Petra's.

"Austyn?"

They'd leave you behind if they knew what you just saw, she thought.

"Just a nightmare," Austyn reassured the Queen's Wrath. "Thank you for waking me."

<|endoftext|>

Pathfinder's Hood

THIRD-STRING WITCHES - V

Petra watched Sedia preside over the thirteen of the new Coven. A mixture of pride and fearful anxiety knotted her stomach, as if the interior of her skin was being tugged into her gut by warm sinew strings. She held the shape of her smile until they had taken their positions within the Blind Well. Austyn, Ylaia, and Sjari formed the core of the party, with the others interlinking in an exterior circle. They situated themselves at key points around a thrumming Wayfinder's Compass that bent the air into wild chromatic slurries. The Well awakened.

They prepared their minds. Slipped into meditation. Communion in searching. Thirteen voices spoke as one, and then silence as the Well dropped into prisms of glass beneath the novice Coven's feet. Not but a moment ago, they thirteen stood within the Blind Well, hands and minds interlocked. Now they cascaded through a river of possibility, will, and intention.

It was not long before the connection was made. Queen Mara Sov's voice filled their thoughts, and they drew to it like gravity. The Coven sisters skipped between Ley Lines, ricocheting from time to place until they found themselves swirling in the whirlpool accretion of a brilliant celestine goddess. Their queen.

Not far beyond it, Austyn again saw the noise.

She kept her eye upon it while each of her sisters reached out, until the image of Mara Sov manifested and her words found footing in understanding. They focused their will upon her words, and before them, a pale screen of fog and glass gave way into a distant Ley Line beyond Sol.

"You have done well, my Techeuns," said Mara, stepping from the nothing and into their presence. She placed her hand on the Wayfinder's Compass. "Take me home."

The Coven turned their minds back to the Dreaming City, to safety, to Petra. But as they began their return journey through the Ascendant Plane and across the Ley Lines, they felt the presence of another watching. At the edges of the accretion, a din of distorted noise pursued them.

Mara glowered at Austyn before turning and raising her palms. With a single word, the Ley Line shattered behind them, sending a lance of energy through the heart of the noise as they sped away toward the Dreaming City. "I will not suffer a bloodied mongrel at my heels," whispered Mara. "Keep your focus. She will be back."

Austyn could feel the noise encircling them again, as it had done to her that night in her bed. It would suffocate them in this dream.

Each time the Coven shifted Ley Lines, so too did the noise. She knew they could not escape it, and through her, so did her sisters. It descended upon them, and as it grew closer, the noise manifested into whispers. Austyn's mind could think of nothing but one name: Xivu Arath.

She could see the Dreaming City, but the image wasn't clear. The sharpness of the connection was darkening. Her sisters felt her worry. They did not have the strength to escape. Their minds aligned on an action. Austyn grabbed the compass and placed it in Mara Sov's hands. "We will ensure your arrival."

Each sister shifted her thoughts from the Dreaming City to her own corner of the Ascendant Plane, and with a burst of will, they scattered themselves across the Ley Lines. The noise halted momentarily and split in every direction to follow them.

Queen Mara Sov crashed to her feet as she connected with the floor of the Blind Well.

"My queen!" Petra looked to the quickly sealing rift from which she fell. "Where are the others?"

<|endoftext|>

Tusked Allegiance Mask

AGAIN.

Sok'tol, Fifth of the Light, felt flame surge through his body as he was resurrected. 

He became aware of many things at once: the altar beneath him. The roaring of Acolytes. The powerful grip on his shoulders, which even now began to crack under the pressure. 

Above him, a trio of Wizards held his Ghost tight, its bleached shell ensnared by ebony tendrils of controlling spellcraft. It pulled against the bonds but could do nothing but look down at him helplessly.

SING OF HER LIES. SPEAK OF HER TRUTHS.

The voice was everywhere. As Sok'tol strained to sit up, something slammed him down, pounding his chitinous skull into the stone again and again. He screeched as the bony frill surrounding his face splintered and snapped loose. He felt his jaw dislodge, felt his own teeth crush against his face, felt himself crack and shatter.

Blackness. And then—

AGAIN.

As his shell knit and restored soulfire flowed anew, Sok'tol, Fifth of the Light, shuddered awake. 

The Acolytes roared again. They crowded the altar, surrounded by a haze of green. Sok'tol peered upward at the Ogre pinning him against the altar. 

It tightened its grip on his shoulders, claws crackling with wrathful energy. It shook its massive head, crowned in an emerald corona, and bellowed in a voice that was not its own:

YOUR STRENGTH BECOMES MINE. AS WILL HERS. SPEAK.

Sok'tol concentrated the Light in his armored hand and began to form a grenade, but the shrieking Acolytes reached forward and tore his fingers apart in their claws. 

Sok'tol bared his teeth and hissed up at the Ogre, whose eyes rolled with fury as a blast of soulfire erupted from its mouth. Sok'tol opened his jaws to howl as he was obliterated.

Blackness. And then—

AGAIN.

<|endoftext|>

Tusked Allegiance Grips

Crow was already reloading when the strange Hive's lifeless body crashed to the forest floor.

Glint flew toward the corpse without a word. Crow pretended not to notice and kept walking through the woods. He's been in a mood all day, Glint thought with a static sigh. He could use some time alone.

When he reached the Hive, Glint resisted the absurd reflex to scan it for compatibility. Instead, he simply assessed, noting the strong arms that could handle the recoil from heavy weapons; the thick shell, built to absorb all manner of firepower; the remains of a bony shield that sizzled nearby, powerful enough to protect—

The space next to Glint fluctuated as a bone-white Hive Ghost appeared. 

The two froze warily in midair.

"Hey," the Hive Ghost whispered after a moment. "It's okay." Its voice was surprisingly soft. 

Its green eye flickered reassuringly and it began to focus Light.

Glint bobbed unsteadily. Crow was fifty yards off, moving carefully through the trees. "You shouldn't—"

"It'll be all right," it said and hovered lower to the ground, pouring Light into the fallen Hive. The surrounding ferns trembled with the sudden flow of energy.

"Wait," Glint pressed. But the Ghost ignored him as the thick armor of the Hive began to reform. 

"Crow!" Glint screamed, "Crow, here!" And he flew to him without turning back.

<|endoftext|>

Tusked Allegiance Vest

Mithrax delicately pushed the low curtain aside as he entered the bedroom.

Tall shelves crowded him, cluttered with relics from Mercury and beyond: piles of intricate scrolls, silver hourglasses that turned of their own accord, ceramic pots of red soil sprouting delicate metallic vines beneath glass domes. An enormous feathered mantle was mounted carefully on a wooden stand and crowned with a birdlike cowl.

The hulking form of Saint-14 sat in a wooden chair facing the bed where, impossibly small beneath the blankets, rested the man known as Osiris.

Mithrax rapped politely on the doorframe.

"My friend," Saint-14 said. "It is good of you to come."

Mithrax approached Saint and bowed. "It is an honor to be invited," he said. "These visits are pleasant to me." 

He held out the covered dish he was carrying in his lower arms, but Saint's eyes remained fixed on Osiris. 

The Titan took a ragged breath. His voice was a hoarse whisper: "Could the Psion machine… connect my mind with his? So that I might share his dreams?"

Mithrax felt useless. He spoke softly: "The Psion tells me the subject must have residual activity for a reading, and Osiris has been asleep very long. Besides, the connection you seek joins the Light of one being to the Light of another, and Osiris is—"

"Lightless, yes," Saint finished flatly. He leaned forward in his chair, his elbows on his knees, hands clasped before him. He was silent for some time.

"I will let him sleep alone," Saint finally said, and caressed Osiris's hand with impossible tenderness. "When he wakes, we will dream together once more."

He adjusted the blankets, stood, and nodded toward the covered dish Mithrax still clutched awkwardly.

"I am hoping that is not more eggplant," he said.

Mithrax coughed on his Ether. "The eggplant is most nourishing," he protested weakly, and Saint groaned.

<|endoftext|>

Tusked Allegiance Strides

Bask materialized near a low wall and zipped to where Jolur had collapsed. The Ghost began to focus his Light when incoming fire sent him spinning to the ground.

"What did I tell you about dying in the open?" the little Ghost cried in frustration. Determined, he rose into the air, but the Hive Knight was already charging across the Trostland cobblestones.

A sudden explosion of Void energy took the Knight by surprise, but it dodged the pulsing shockwaves of a Vortex Grenade. A tall Warlock in a worn green robe loped from the treeline and slid to a stop before Bask. She hastily formed a ball of Light in her palm and slammed it into the ground. Delicate wisps of energy began to rise from the soil.

"That's not gonna help!" Bask whirred angrily.

The Warlock stood, sheltering Bask with her body as he resumed his focus on Jolur. The Knight screeched and resumed fire. A volley of Shredder bolts doubled the Warlock over, but the energy seeping from the rift gave her the strength to keep standing. 

"Thanks," said Bask sheepishly.

"Don't mention it," she said, gritting her teeth through the gunfire. 

A blinding burst of energy surged as Jolur rose to his feet, body shimmering with Light. He braced himself and lobbed an orb of unstable energy that reduced the Knight to howling ash on impact. 

"Appreciate the assist," Jolur said to Bask and the Warlock as he brushed dirt from his decrepit boots. "These guys are stronger than I thought, but it's nothing a Nova Bomb can't handle."

The Warlock inspected the damage to her robe. "What's going on with these Hive?"

"I don't know," Jolur said. "Lord Saladin sent a group of us down to figure out—"

Another blinding burst of energy surged nearby. The Knight rose to its feet, body shimmering with Light. 

The Guardians stood frozen in horror. 

"Since when can they do that?" Bask squeaked, and the fight began in earnest.

<|endoftext|>

Tusked Allegiance Cloak

The huddled Guardians fell into shocked silence as Commander Zavala's silhouette loomed over the table.

A hooded figure sat, suddenly enveloped by the shadow, and leaned backward until his head bumped against Zavala's chestplate. He tilted his chin up and craned his neck to fix Zavala with an upside-down smile. 

His hood fell back. "What's with the face, Big Blue?" Drifter said. "Somebody's gotta teach 'em how to play offense."

"Get this out of my Tower." There was iron in the Titan's voice. 

An old fear split Drifter's face. He leaned forward, swept the contents of the table into his knapsack—tangled cables, a red lens, shards of bone, a green eye spinning madly in a jar of thick fluid—and left without a word.

<|endoftext|>

Gensym Knight

Eris, 
I have scoured my library but found nothing on this "Nokris" of which you speak. I am sorry both for the delay and that I could not be of more help. Do you ever feel any affection for the creatures that changed you? I confess this weakness myself. In the shadow of the Pyramidion, I have sometimes felt a kind of craven admiration for the illimitable superior beings that suffuse my body. I can feel them move through my veins with purpose, magnetized to the intent of the Minds that have come to machinoform Echo Mesa. I have a sense of their desires. They have changed since I fell. And so, I am—if nothing else—a new variable in whatever grand equation compels them. 

My arm grows worse. This morning, I cut my finger and bled radiolaria. I will redouble my efforts. 

Truth in action, 
Asher Mir

<|endoftext|>

Wildwood

Right, well… I'm afraid you won't get far with that attitude. Hawthorne doesn't care about that "Trials of Osiris" rubbish. Gilded armor can't feed hungry refugees. And don't go nattering on with that "Guardian" business either, not where she can hear you. There are no "Guardians" out here. To her, anyone that can pick up a gun and shoot is a "Guardian." 

I know you're new here. You've done a lot, seen a lot. And I know Hawthorne can be a bit rough around the edges, eh? But listen to her. What she says is sound: "Look out for each other. Don't do anything stupid. Pitch in where you can." She's not claiming to be one of your Vanguard. She is simply doing what she feels is her duty—defending those under her protection until all are safe and we can rebuild what we've lost.

<|endoftext|>

Lost Pacific

From the Diaries of Dr. Shanice Pell 
Darling, the installation is nearly complete. Between Ishtar's endless audits and Clovis Bray's network protocols, I thought we would never make it. Secret the initial blueprints in hand-to-hand relays, recruit personnel brave enough to challenge the Traveler at its own game, secure mining rights in the Belt for materials… I remember when it was just a dream in our heads. At last, the freedom and silence to pierce interstellar space for our own answers! Tomorrow, I'm bringing the girls to see the navigation probe launch. They still ask about you from time to time. I just tell them, that's why we're out here, to find you.

<|endoftext|>

Kairos Function

The unenlightened wonder at my so-called "fixation" upon the Vex. They believe our gravest existential threat is the Hive, for those beings have made a pact with the Darkness itself via the medium of the Worm Gods (according to Toland, at least, and I see no reason to doubt him in this).

But Darkness is not merely absence of Light. Darkness is an entity unto itself. Put simply, Darkness is not Nothing.

But the Vex? The Vex seek neither Light nor Darkness. They seek Convergence, the reduction of all life to its simplest, most meaningless form. An entelechy of zeros and ones.

"Evil" is a word for sentimentalists and fools. But, in the ontology of the sentimental, the Vex are more deserving of the term than the Hive.

Given a choice between Darkness and Convergence, I would choose Darkness. It is a logical choice.

Yet for this they banish me.

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Sn0Mask

To: wibray
CC: CB Leadership, atvon
Re: Quarter Update
New arctic line is on track to hit Milestone Silver. Current risks lie with key Priority 1 issues with the Sn0Treads design, but we've recently requested additional resources to mitigate that. I've spoken with the head engineer, and she's confident we will deliver on schedule. This is one of the strongest teams we've put together, and so far the results have been outstanding. The mask in particular received high praise for its extreme clarity, and an overall positive user evaluation.
Individual lead notes are attached. No reply all.

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Survival Mitts

FEEDBACK FROM FIELD SESSION 177
* Thermal conservation tech "felt good" over a seven-hour session
* Micromesh webbing had minor grating on user's wrist, consistent across multiple test subjects
* 3cm, 1cm, 5mm grip tests successful
* User shouted expletive during high-caliber round test, but only sustained minor bruising

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Combat Vest

Armor is the inherent struggle between freedom and protection, and has been since the dawn of humanity. The natural conclusion of elementary physics is such that resilience is the enemy of mobility. But now we're pioneers in a nascent world of discovery, where we can abrogate the laws of "Old Physics" and widen the breadth of engineering design space.
My colleagues at Clovis Bray and I are excited to embark upon this project. We intend to enhance the efficacy of our line of protective armor, and bring to you the level of quality you expect from the Bray name.

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Sn0Treads

"Elsie's here from Weapons R&D to lend us a hand. She'll be taking over the project until the next milestone, and hopefully get rid of our little jamming problem in the treads."
"Elsie… as in Elsie Bray?"
"You know another Elsie?"
"No, I just… well, she's basically an engineering legend around here!"
"You're a professional, not some fanboy. Do what she says, and use this opportunity to learn."
"Right. Of course."
"Any other questions?"
"Does my hair look OK?"
"Get out of my office."

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Winter Cloak

It's a local legend that ghostly apparitions dwell in the mountains of the Hellas region. Based on multiple accounts, they're pale white and blend with the snow. All you can see is a floating set of eyes and a mouth, smiling all creepy-like. Ever since Clovis Bray set up shop, the sightings have dropped sharply, but every now and then someone claims to see one of these phantom figures.

<|endoftext|>

Reverie Dawn Casque

She waits.

She trusts that Eris will shepherd the Guardians and that the infinite ambition of those undying half-children will deliver her. They will enter the court and challenge its king and dance in its killing ground, and they will master the school of sword logic so mightily that they will overturn its teacher and forsake the crown.

Soon.

But soon may not be soon enough, because Oryx roams the hallowed spires and melancholy shores of the Dreaming City. He stands looking out over the mists of her beautiful creation, and he laughs.

She can feel him there like a thorn in the meat of her palm.
She scolds herself for not factoring Shuro Chi's love into her design. Then she berates herself for this nervous energy, this fretful self-cannibalism.

Lungless, Mara remembers the sensation of a deep breath. Enacts it in her mind.

She remembers the singularity before her.

She waits.

<|endoftext|>

Reverie Dawn Grasps

She travels across the Ascendant Plane.

The voyage across the sea of screams threatens to erode her edges as no other trial ever has. In Oryx's throne world, she had a semblance of an identity. Treasure. Spoil of war. Defeated queen. Repugnant and alien and Not Me, but she could use these contortions as guideposts to trace her way back to herself.

Here in the emptiness between throne worlds, she has nothing but what she can carry.

The burden is growing heavier, but she is not alone.

He tries to speak to her from a place of high contempt. In doing so, he invites her into his topography.

She steps out of howling and finds her footing upon a plane of swords and madness and all-consuming curiosity.

"Who are you?"

The question summons an almost-forgotten answer deep within the rapidly solidifying shape of her.

"I AM MARA SOV. STARLIGHT WAS MY MOTHER, AND MY FATHER WAS THE DARK."

The thing that once was called Toland flees before her darkness/light/shadow/majesty. And she rests within this scrap of a world, before resuming her journey through the Howling.

<|endoftext|>

Reverie Dawn Hauberk

She feels Oryx's true death in both halves of her soul, a full imagined exhale before the aftershock reaches his throne world.

It crumbles around her like stone, like ash, like veils in a breeze.

Eris Morn's friends have succeeded. The Guardians have slain a god.

She steps through the ruins. In the end, there is nothing. Nothing but Mara Sov and the howling of rampant, untamed logics.

Her great and terrible gamble has paid off.

The rest is up to her now.

<|endoftext|>

Reverie Dawn Strides

Joy wells in her heart when her searching fingers trace the edges of Eleusinia.

She has passed through the desert. She has reached the far side of the chessboard. She is alive, or soon will be.

She opens the door and her joy dies on the threshold.

Her throne world is desecrated.

Not annihilated, as Oryx's was. The pillars and terraces and courtyards still retain their shape. But the roots have rotted, and the geometry festers.

She should have known she would not be the only one to plan for such eventualities.

Oryx's bootprints pucker like scars in the labyrinth that was once only her own.

She sits a while beneath Sjur's statue, then follows his tracks through the ruins of Eleusinia, back to the Dreaming City.

<|endoftext|>

Scatterhorn Mask

I:

"Anything else, Arrha?"

"Yes, the Spider." Arrha answers in Eliksni. "Mithrax has told me about the orb the humans call Tee-tahn. A water-world of floating cities. Before the Red War, very few humans visited it, very few."

"I'm already bored."

"Tee-tahn is still ripe with plunder, the Spider, and now the plunder comes to us! The Guardian Slohn sends shipments of it to Terra in unmanned craft. Relies on the cloaking to protect it. But the cloaking cannot stop a web. Not if we know where to cast it."

"How interesting." Spider scratches his chin. "Very good, Arrha. It's time for you to go fishing."

"Fishhhhhh… ink?"

Spider heaves a put-upon sigh. "Catch me one of those boats, you fool."

"Yes, the Spider. I shall."

Only when he is outside the Spider's audience chamber does Arrha allow himself a frustrated growl. "'Catch a boat, Arrha.' That was the idea…"

<|endoftext|>

Scatterhorn Grasps

II:

Spider leans forward in his throne, surveying the crates Arrha has brought before him. "What have you caught in my web?"

The haul, it turns out, is almost entirely composed of Golden Age astronomy equipment. Deep space scanners, detailed maps of arcologies, comets, space stations within the system—even a few outside it. Arrha has only ever heard of a few of these places, and he grew up devouring the tales of his ancestors' journeys after the Whirlwind. This haul is priceless.

Spider is uninterested.

"I suppoooose I can find a buyer for this," he says with a dismissive wave of his hand. "The Awoken have no use for these trinkets, of course, but perhaps someone in the Earth-City will bite." He clicks his mandibles. "Disappointing, Arrha. Disappointing."

"The Spider…"

"I hope very much that the ship's log will be more edifying. You brought it to me, of course?"

"Yes, the Spider." Head bowed to hide his disappointment, Arrha hands Spider a datapad.

Spider scrolls through it with three of his eyes closed. Only when he reaches the bottom do all of his eyes open. "It says here that your Sloane believes an unknown party is stealing from Green Dove Arcology."

"I am stealing from New Pacific Arcology," Arrha says with a trace of a pout.

Spider ignores him.

"Arrha, let Brivi take over the web. You will discover for me the identity of this enterprising thief."

"Yes, the Spider."

<|endoftext|>

Scatterhorn Vest

III:

"Come now, my potential new friend," Spider encourages. "Let's have a chat. I see from your robes that you are from the noble order of the Dead Orbit. You were returning from Green Dove Arcology when you accepted my invitation—"

"—Your four-arms captured me!"

"—and I have here your ship's manifest." Spider waves a data pad. "How careless of you, little thief."

"That was encrypted."

"And now it is not."

Spider considers Ghislaine, his four eyes closing one after the other and then opening again.

He sits up. "How rude of me. This is no way to begin a friendship. Not only will I speed you on your way to Titan, my friend, but I will give you an armillary recovered from New Pacific Arcology."

"'Recovered?'"

In the corner where Petra used to stand, Arrha sulks.

Spider grins. "In exchange, perhaps you will give me something from your previous shipment. Nothing of value; just a symbolic gesture of our new relationship. Perhaps… number eighty-nine on the manifest?"

"My manifest only went up to seventy-one," says Ghislaine.

"Now, what a useless little lie."

"It's true. Search my ship, if you haven't already. You must have scraped a different Dead Orbit ship manifest off our network."

"Ah." Spider tries not to click his mandibles in displeasure, even though he's fairly certain this Earthling wouldn't recognize the gesture if he did. "So this…" he pauses to read from the data pad, pretending like he's forgotten what it says. "…Oil likeness of eight moons over a village… is already with your Dead Orbit associates on Earth?"

"Unless they're even unluckier than me."

"I see."

Spider gestures at Arrha. "See our new friend out. Make sure she and her ship leave here unharmed."

<|endoftext|>

Scatterhorn Strides

IV:

Spider's operative within Dead Orbit is a man named Howe who sounds truly terrified to receive a direct call from his covert employer.

Spider buries his real desire within a long list of weapons and ammunition, but Howe still manages to single it out.

"Did you say number eighty-nine on manifesto Dove 15?"

"I do not believe I stuttered."

"But that's… it's so old. Pre-Golden Age, we think. Linde's best guess is that it was part of a moving art exhibit."

"You tell me nothing I do not already know."

"But… why do you want it?"

Spider might have let the man live, up until now.

A pity, really.

"All you need to know is how much I will pay you if you bring it to me."

"All right," Howe says dubiously. "Give me a hundred hours."

"You have forty."

Spider ends the call, and begins the process of wiping it from the records.

<|endoftext|>

Scatterhorn Cloak

V:

Howe's body grows cold by the time Spider can tear his eyes away from the painting.

"Beautiful. Truly beautiful. And achieved without a Traveler or any of its nonsense."

He waves to Arrha with a lower arm while holding the painting with his other three.

"Clear the room."

Arrha bows and exits, dragging Howe's body with him. The doors slam closed.

Spider pushes himself to his feet, turns to face his throne.

He sings. Mo Li Hua, an ancient song of Earth. As he finishes the first verse, his throne dematerializes to reveal a stone stairway leading down.

Spider descends.

The chamber below is cool and dry. Shelves line the walls. This display case contains crowns made of gold and silver, antler bone and velvet. The next is filled with red clay pottery adorned with monsters and heroes.

Spider passes a case filled with beautifully illuminated books and scrolls. He reaches a wall nearly covered with paintings.

In the gap between a painting of a bovine skull over a double waterfall and a portrait of a human with a coy smile, he places his prize:

"The Starry Night."

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Stalker Mask

MCXX-I, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay the Warlock Vanguard Ikora Rey.

As recorded by the enshrined Scribe Shagac, the Vanguard of Earth requested mercy, and their request was denied. Thus the Warlock Ikora was permitted a final day to consider her perfidy before her death.

To this generosity Ikora Rey said, "I do not need a day. Let us end this now."

And she unleashed from her fingertips a Nova Bomb of such proportions that it shook Mars to its foundations and made the stars weep for envy. And the Shadow answered her with the strength of a god-killer.

Alight with the power of a hollow god, Ikora Rey let loose such torrents of Arc and Solar and the most majestic Void that the sands of Mars turned to glass and shattered. And the Shadow matched her blow for blow. No greater battle has ever been enshrined in the Emperor's Glorious accounts, and none ever will be again, for at the last of it, Mars's orbit was forever altered, and the mighty Ikora Rey was no more.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Stalker Grips

MCXXI, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay the shipwright Amanda Holliday.

There was among Earth's people a pilot to rival Jarrus the Ace-Defiant. Her name was Amanda Holliday, and when the Emperor saw her fly, he was pleased; when he saw her destroy his pleasure-vessel, he was thrilled; when he saw her shoot down the Shadow of Earth, he exulted.

And so, when the Shadow of Earth recovered from death, the Emperor said, "Bring me the Ace-Resistant."

So the Shadow landed upon Earth and sought Amanda Holliday on foot, for even an Ace must return to land sometimes. The Shadow found her camp, and approached her, and put up no defense when the Ace-Resistant drew an Auto Rifle. The Ace-Resistant killed the Shadow many times, until she had no ammo left, and then the Shadow beseeched her, for the sake of their friendship, to speak as they once did.

The Shadow held out a hand, and Amanda Holliday, the Ace-Resistant, took it in her own.

Then the Shadow slew her, and brought her body to the Emperor saying, "I have brought you the Ace-Resistant."

And the Emperor laughed, for his Shadow was a clever and a covetous soul.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Stalker Vest

MCXIII, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay the Warlock Osiris.

There was a Guardian named Osiris who defied the Shadow of Earth, saying: "If you are really the mightiest that Earth has to offer, then I challenge you in a battle of wits."

Then Osiris disappeared into the Infinite Forest, scattering his Reflections about him so as to mask himself.

But the Shadow of Earth went to the First Vex, and said to it: "My love for you is as rational as the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter."

The Vex, faced with an impossible problem, promptly perished, and with it, all Vex and all their workings crumbled into empty chassis and chalky cubes.

Thus Osiris, deprived of his Reflections, was exposed, and the Shadow of Earth slew him easily.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Stalker Strides

MCXXII, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay the master of ceremonies.

After the Vanguard's passing, the Earth was in lamentation, and their sorrows fell upon their Shadow's ears. The Shadow of Earth went to the Emperor and said, "When the Earth grieves, its Shadow grieves."

The Emperor said, "Your generous heart overflows. Go, take my joy to your people."

So the Shadow went to Earth, to the master of ceremonies, and said, "Eva Levante, the days of the Dawning and Crimson Days, of Revelry and Festival of the Lost are over. From now on, it is your jubilant task to fete his Grandiose Majesty, the Father of Satisfaction."

But Eva Levante refused, for she had no kindness or generosity in her heart. So the Shadow of Earth slew her and appointed Lord Shaxx the new master of ceremonies. And Lord Shaxx feted the emperor with a serene and gentle joy.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Stalker Cloak

MCXX-II, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay the Titan Vanguard Zavala.

As recorded by the enshrined Scribe Shagac, the Vanguard of Earth requested mercy, and their request was denied. Thus the Titan Zavala was permitted a final day to consider his perfidy before his death.

So the Titan Zavala went to the Human known as Suraya Hawthorne and said, "Suraya Hawthorne, will you play a game of checkers with me?"

Suraya Hawthorne agreed, and so the two played twenty-seven games of checkers, and listened to the music of bagpipes and synthesizers, and dined upon Earth delicacies such as nuggets of chicken and the beer of roots.

 "Titan Zavala," said Suraya Hawthorne as Earth's sun rose upon their latitude, "There will never again be a checkersmaster of your like."

"No, Suraya," said Titan Zavala. "You must become a greater checkersmaster than even me, if you are to lead the resistance."

Thus the Titan Vanguard did not meet his final death alone. And Suraya Hawthorne was slain at a later date.



^ Note to Underscribe Shipal: Very good. This is entirely credible.

<|endoftext|>

Titan

Disciplined and proud, Titans are capable of both aggressive assaults and stalwart defenses.

<|endoftext|>

Wing Discipline

A CRUCIBLE STORY
PART ONE OF THREE

"I beat you fair," Cayde said. "Don't ever—"

He raised his hand high to wag a finger under Shaxx's nose.

"—try to outrace my Golden Guns."

Two children ran by in a blur, laughing.

Shaxx shook his head slowly. "It was a tactical error. Won't happen again."

"Next time doesn't matter. You lost today, and today you owe me."

The Titan stared down at the Hunter, but said nothing, his hands clenched in fists. Cayde ignored the posturing and turned to face a desolate field of dirt and large rocks. A writhing mob of children spread across it, clusters of them barreling into each other as they bellowed and screamed. A much smaller number of elders waded in the chaotic sea of miniature people.

"What is this? What's happening?" Shaxx demanded.

"This City has children. Children who must stay within designated safe zones." The two Guardians watched as a boy climbed the largest rock on the field, about four feet in the air, and howled at the sky. "Of course they're gonna go a little stir-crazy. Parents bring them out to this—you'd think it would have a name—this field every month, and they have at it. Better they hit each other than climb the walls."

Shaxx stared at them.

<|endoftext|>

Mark of Remembrance

A TALE FROM THE DARK AGE, PART TWO OF THREE
ATOP A DUSTY CLIFFSIDE

Saladin looks down the mountainside at the tank, then to the village. His fists tighten at his sides as the air around him begins to crackle.

"If you miss—"

He stops speaking as Efrideet grabs him by the metallic collar, pressing him over her head. Arc energy from both Lightbearers coalesces in a roaring storm around them—Saladin's crackling, barely contained, Efrideet's flowing, guiding. The mountain rumbles beneath her as she steps forward. Waves of gravel and dirt blast up behind her as she hurls the armored man off the cliffside like a javelin, their combined Arc energy singing like a drawn sword. Saladin's gilded form becomes a cannon shot, tearing holes through three layers of clouds as he rips down toward the Fallen Walker.

<|endoftext|>

Crushing Helm (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes to gaze at the heavens, seeking an answer to your question.

It's pitch black in a world of full D A R K.

You smell a rotting stench all around you.

The wind roars in your ears.

You have idle hands; there is nothing to touch, as far as you can tell.

Your soul is weary.

Your feet find purchase on a dry surface you cannot see.

You hear your mark billowing in the wind.

YOUR LIGHT FADES AWAY…

<|endoftext|>

Crushing Guard (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes to gaze at your hands, seeking an answer to your question.

It's pitch black in a world of full D A R K.

You smell a rotting stench all around you.

The wind roars in your ears.

A starless sky hangs above you.

Your soul is weary.

Your feet find purchase on a dry surface you cannot see.

You hear your mark billowing in the wind.

YOUR LIGHT FADES AWAY…

<|endoftext|>

Crushing Plate (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes to gaze upon your weary soul, seeking an answer to your question.

It's pitch black in a world of full D A R K.

You smell a rotting stench all around you.

The wind roars in your ears.

A starless sky hangs above you.

You have idle hands; there is nothing to touch, as far as you can tell.

Your feet find purchase on a dry surface you cannot see.

You hear your mark billowing in the wind.

YOUR LIGHT FADES AWAY…

<|endoftext|>

Crushing Greaves (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes to gaze down at your feet, seeking an answer to your question.

It's pitch black in a world of full D A R K.

You smell a rotting stench all around you.

The wind roars in your ears.

A starless sky hangs above you.

You have idle hands; there is nothing to touch, as far as you can tell.

Your soul is weary.

You hear your mark billowing in the wind.

YOUR LIGHT FADES AWAY…

<|endoftext|>

Mark Judgment (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes to gaze at your mark, seeking an answer to your question.

It's pitch black in a world of full D A R K.

You smell a rotting stench all around you.

The wind roars in your ears.

A starless sky hangs above you.

You have idle hands; there is nothing to touch, as far as you can tell.

Your soul is weary.

YOUR LIGHT FADES AWAY…

<|endoftext|>

Mark Relentless

the edge of a system frays like string
PATHS ARE CARVED BY MORE THAN RANGERS AND WAYFINDERS
Out there in the remnants of old, the echo hums.
W E H A D B E E N V I E W E D B E F O R E
REMEMBER? DO YOU?

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Helm

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-02-01 // MERCURY 

The Exo Titan Reed-7 cuts an imposing silhouette across the Mercurian sands, the sun at his back. Reed and his Ghost fix their attention on two streaks of fire gleaming across the sky.  

"They're late," Reed's Ghost chirps. 

"Again," Reed notes with a sigh. His eyes follow the burning trails across the dusty beige sky until they reveal a pair of jumpships entering the atmosphere. 

"I'm picking up a… dispute on open comms," Reed's Ghost notes, bobbling through the air around his Guardian. "You may want to brace for impact." 

The jumpships dive low and hug the ground after reentry, kicking up a cloud of sand that billows across the ancient stone courtyard of the Caloris Spires. Reed turns his head to watch them speed off to the opposite horizon. 

 "—believe for a minute that's all we could've done!" A voice shouts over comms and finishes in physical space as Reed's Warlock companion, Shayura,  transmats down to the surface. Crackling bands of energy ripple off of Shayura and another Guardian, a Hunter: Aisha. Shayura is incandescent with anger. Waves of golden fire lap at the sides of her face. 

Reed doesn't say anything as his companions arrive. They're doing enough talking for everyone on Mercury, so he gives them their space, choosing instead to focus on the task at hand. He moves toward the looming structure of the Lighthouse and the Guardians gathered outside, waiting in their queue to compete in the prestigious Trials of Osiris. 

His Ghost looks at him with concern; Reed reassures him with a gentle tap of his finger against the Ghost's shell. But Reed can hear his friends becoming increasingly frustrated with one another. Arguments like this have happened before: Is Eris trustworthy? Should the Vanguard track down Cayde's murderer? Was Cayde's death his own fault for being so reckless? Their disagreements had always ended with understanding. Today, however, things feel different. 

"Hey!" Reed turns and shouts back at them. It's louder than he intended. The bright red Exo recoils a little from the volume of his own voice. The clap of his rebuke distracts both Warlock and Hunter. They look up at him in sudden silence. 

Reed lifts a hand to the back of his neck, scratching sheepishly. "Can we do this later? Please?" 

Shayura and Aisha afford each other a brief and mild look. Wordlessly, they put away their conversational weapons for another time. Shayura draws a Sword and points it across the windswept courtyard toward a group of Guardians, indicating a challenge. 

"Fine," Aisha agrees reluctantly. 

Reed will take that as a victory, however small.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Gauntlets

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-02-03 // BAZAAR, THE TOWER, LAST CITY

The noise of the Bazaar is a background hum, seemingly electrical but performed by so many organic systems.  Reed-7 finds comfort in the banality of human conversation when viewed at a macro level—the impression of life. It's something other than language to him, something he imagines the universe might sound like to a Warlock. At least, he assumes they hear those things. 

There is relief that in this moment,  Reed hears only the people in the Bazaar, not the voices of horror that haunt him from Io's cradle. When he thinks too hard about it, he can still hear the Darkness moaning through his Ghost. Rather than dwell on it, he searches for something else to fixate on, something to distract him. 

The whole of the Bazaar is decorated for the Festival of the Lost, with colorful engram-shaped ornaments hung from decoratively macabre trees. A Ghost—one he's fairly certain belongs to the Warlock Osiris—goes cartwheeling by with a shriek of laughter, trailing cloth wrappings in her wake. The moment of levity helps lift Reed's spirits as he returns to his table in New Monarchy's enclosure where Aisha and Shayura wait for him. 

"Drinks," Reed says, setting down three tall mugs wafting with steam. Aisha offers him a supportive but strained smile. "Careful," he notes as she reaches for a mug, "they're hot." He'd earned the nickname Strike-Dad thanks to obvious and well-meaning cautions like that. 

"There's cinnamon in yours," Reed says to Shayura, who may be asleep, her head down on the table atop her folded arms. Shayura has the wherewithal to give him a distracted thumbs-up. It's at least comforting, if not wholly reassuring. Aisha gives Reed a wordless look of concern and shakes her head. Their talk had not gone well while he was away. 

"I know you're upset about Sloane," Reed says, deciding to tear off that conversational bandage. "But you know the commander's done all he can. We've done all we can. Don't blame yourself for—"

"Thanks," Shayura says without looking up. She sits up enough to grab her steaming mug with two hands and drag the piping hot cider over to herself. She slouches over the mug, breathing in the aroma of cinnamon, honey, apples, and cloves. Her eyes drift shut, and for a moment, she seems more herself. 

Aisha and Reed take a moment to breathe. Give Shayura time to breathe. "I know," Shayura finally says in a small, guilty voice. "I'm sorry." It's hard to tell if she's talking about Sloane, or about her behavior in general. 

"You don't need to apologize to us," Reed says with a look to Aisha, finding her approval. "You should apologize to Leitka  and his Ghost." 

"It was Titan,"  Shayura finally says, staring into her mug. Reed and Aisha look at each other, but neither interrupts. They let her reach that point at her own pace. "I was back on Titan. Like when we were Lightless, surrounded by Hive.  There was this Knight… no matter how many times I killed him, he kept coming back.  I should've died out there." 

"But you didn't," Aisha says, reaching out across the table to take Shayura's hand, giving it a reassuring squeeze. "We got our Light back, and—"

"What happens when the Darkness closes in?" Shayura asks, though she knows neither Reed nor Aisha have the answer. "Will she  be Lightless again? Alone?" 

Reed and Aisha share a look, and the Exo reaches across the table to lay one of his large hands on Shayura's, atop Aisha's. He doesn't have a rousing speech, strong words, or even cold comforts. He just has his presence to offer in support of her traumas. 

He has to hope that's enough.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Plate

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-02-02 // TRIALS ARENA, THE LIGHTHOUSE, MERCURY

Reed-7's arms feel like they're going to break apart at the seams.  The vibration building in his body threatens to shake him to pieces for every second that he maintains his barrier. It stands as an extension of his Light and also his body. He feels it like a piece of himself, one that he has overextended time and again, as it deflects an Auto Rifle's rapid-fire barrage. 

Only two Guardians are left on the opposing team; the remains of the third are scattered around the area, smoking and sizzling. Reed considers how fast he and Aisha might be able to rush in on their cornered Guardian. Even if Reed gets taken down, it might be enough time for Aisha and Shayura—wherever she is—to secure a victory. 

"Aisha?" Reed asks. His voice rises in concern as his barrier begins to destabilize. He knows it's now or never. But as he looks to Aisha, Reed spies flames forming between her knuckles. 

Aisha has the better plan. 

As the opposing Guardian pauses to reload behind cover, Aisha boosts straight into the air, through the top of the barrier. Reed lets the dome collapse and feels the immediate release of pressure on his limbs, his legs nearly buckling. He watches Aisha glow brightly, spinning like a burning wheel before unleashing a volley of knives made from condensed plasma in every direction. 

To Reed, it simply looks like a flash of fire and smoke as the opposing Guardian collapses in a heap, Aisha landing next to him. With a sigh of relief, Reed-7 gives her as enthusiastic a thumbs-up as he can muster. 

"Did you see Shay while you were up there?" Reed asks. 

"No. She's probably playing tag with the one that keeps going invisible," Aisha replies. "Let's go find her and finish this up." 

A plume of atomic fire rises up over a nearby block of Vex design as if in direct response to Aisha. The Lighthouse emits a soft tone; the nearby Ghosts begin reconstructing their dead Guardians after the match's conclusion. 

A scream rises from the same direction as the fire, spurring Aisha and Reed into action. The pair navigate the familiar Vex architecture quickly. Two more agonized screams fill the air. When they reach the source of the noise, Reed freezes in his tracks as he witnesses Shayura impale the other Guardian through the faceplate of his helmet with her Sword. The opponent's Ghost shrieks in frustration, trying desperately to get between Shayura and his Guardian. 

Aisha is saying something, but all Reed hears is blood rushing in his ears. Not his blood though. The memory of it. Of something buried behind layered plates of carbon-polymer and plasteel weave. Something haunting his synaptic network. In that moment, Reed is outside of his own body, remembering faces frozen in stone, recalling the whispered plea of his Ghost's tortured voice on Io. 

|| Don't you see? || 

 Reed's heart races. 

|| In Light, there is only weakness. || 

The opposing team's Guardian is brought back to life by his Ghost, but before the Guardian can finish shouting a plea to Shayura, the Warlock cuts off his arm in one stroke. She cleaves her Sword through the top of his helmet in a brutal follow-through. Reed feels his chest tightening, feels a sense of panic kicking in. 

|| Only failure. || 

"Shay, no!" Aisha yells, running up to her friend. She wraps her arms around Shayura's midsection. Shayura screams like a frightened animal, lashing out with a swift slash of her Sword in the direction of the Guardian's corpse. 

|| Only death. || 

"Shayura! The match is over!" Reed shouts, snapping back to reality. "The match is over!" 

It takes both Reed and Aisha to restrain the enraged Warlock. Shayura's voice cracks in a feral cry as flames race down her arms and swirl along the length of her blood-slicked Sword. 

"No! No! Stop! No!" Shayura howls, fighting against her comrades. Aisha grabs at Shayura's wrist, keeping her from swinging her Sword again as the freshly resurrected Guardian scrambles away. 

"Shay," Aisha pleads, trying to get through to her. "Shay!" 

Shayura screams an endless wail into the scalding Mercurian sky.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Greaves

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-02-04 // TENEMENT BUILDING ROOFTOP, PEREGRINE DISTRICT, LAST CITY

"Guardians are arriving from all across the system. Even the Hunters are coming back." 

Reed-7's Ghost has been giving him updates on the minute for the last half hour. He hasn't been able to move since he reached the railing at the edge of the roof. Seeing the Traveler doing anything is cause for alarm, but seeing the Traveler radiating pulses of Light like some kind of beacon is nearly enough to stop the Titan's synthetic heart. He knows his Ghost is still talking, but he's effectively tuned it out. 

Aisha and Shayura are on a lower terrace, far enough away that Reed can't hear them talking, just observe their body language. Both look tense, Shayura most of all. But for all that Reed wants to watch them, he can't seem to keep his eyes away from the Traveler—from the seething waves of blue-white light that erupt from inside its cracked shell, from the way the waves make him feel as they wash over him. It is a vindication to his hope, that the Traveler would not abandon humanity in their hour of need. He wants Shayura to see that, to feel his faith, but each time he looks at her, she seems more distant. 

"Reed." His Ghost says for the fifth time. Reed finally acknowledges his name, looking at his Ghost with uneasy silence. "I feel… strange. Something's happening." It's more a plea to the Guardian than anything. A plea of uncertainty and helplessness. Even his Ghost couldn't tell if the coming tide was going to wash them all away; if this was how the final moments of the Collapse were felt. But in this moment, Reed's only thoughts go to Shayura and Aisha. He looks down at them. 

He sees Aisha, staring up at the Traveler with wide-eyed awe. He sees Shayura looking down, over the edge of the terrace. Her indifference weighs heavy, even as the Traveler throbs like a beating heart and then erupts into a blinding flash of light. 

Reed's last thoughts before the light hits him are of his fireteam. His family. 

When the light fades, when his optic sensors recalibrate , he is moved to simulated tears. The Traveler hangs like a moon over the City. Whole. Reed's faith is reaffirmed in that instant, and tested when he sees Shayura walking away while the City erupts into cheers.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Mark

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-02-05 // SIMULATED LIGHTHOUSE, THE TOWER, LAST CITY

"There's still snow in the cockpit of my jumpship," Aisha says after she appears in a crackling wave of latticework from the subordinate Vex conflux now running simulations of the Lighthouse from the safety of the Tower. 

"Is that why you're late?" Reed-7 asks in a gently teasing tone. Aisha looks around, spreading her hands. 

"And Shayura isn't?" 

"She's coming. How long did you stick around the Stranger's camp after we left?" Reed wonders. Aisha looks away at the Lighthouse across the courtyard. He fails to notice the tension in her posture. 

"Couple hours. I moved around. House of Salvation was putting down stakes out near some Vex ruins; wanted to make sure they didn't stick," Aisha explains, bringing two fingers up to her neck, depressing a button on her armor's collar that summons her helmet around her head in a flash of light. 

Reed snorts and nods. "This is weird, right?" he asks, dropping the topic of Europa. Aisha says nothing in response, waiting for Reed to quantify his assertion. "The simulation. Saint's little… combat closet. It feels real. " 

 "It is real. I mean, we are. The space is a… I don't know, magic? But me and you? The Guardians? We're all us. The dangers may be simulated, but that doesn't make the effects any less real. Saint wouldn't have it any other way," Aisha says, giving Reed an assessing look. "You didn't go into the Infinite Forest, did you?" 

"Hell no," Reed quickly admits. "Couldn't pay me enough to. Can't stand the Vex," he adds with a shudder. "You know how you are with spiders? That's me with the Vex. Don't know why, don't care."

Whatever Aisha was going to say is abruptly cut off when Shayura manifests into the simulated space mid-stride. She walks straight past Reed and Aisha toward the Lighthouse. "Come on." 

Shayura's brusque entrance elicits a concerned look between Reed and Aisha, but they say nothing more on the matter. 

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-02-05 // SIMULATED TRIALS ARENA, SIMULATED LIGHTHOUSE

Reed's shoulder connects with a Guardian on the other team so hard, it breaks every bone in his opponent's chest and sends him straight through the wall. Reed pivots, turning to see Aisha firing her Hand Cannon through the torso of the other Guardian coming up on them with a pair of spectral blades drawn. She's been holding back and Reed can see it, all gunplay, none of her usual fire and flash. 

"Where's Shayura?" Reed asks as he reloads his Scout Rifle. Aisha points down a corridor with two fingers. 

"She's been after that other Awoken Warlock since we started the match. I think she followed him that way," Aisha says, already breaking into a jog. "It's three on one, c'mon." 

Reed shakes his head, hurrying behind Aisha. He remembers what had happened the last time Shayura had broken off on her own. They shouldn't have come back to the Trials, not so soon, not after everything that's happened. Shayura pushed for this, trying to get the fireteam back to normal, but now he worries it was too early. 

When they finally find Shayura, she's standing over a still-living Awoken Guardian whose helmet has been broken, revealing one of his eyes. He stares up at her, at her fire-shrouded Sword. Aisha and Reed train their firearms, prepared to back Shayura up if she misses the finishing blow for the match. But Reed senses something is wrong. Shayura's sight line isn't aimed down at the Guardian; it's aimed up at her opponent's Ghost. 

"Shay?" Aisha asks, a nervous tremor in her voice. 

Shayura lashes out, striking the Ghost with her Sword and knocking it to the ground. The Guardian exhales a scream of plight, and Shayura quickly draws her Sidearm and plants a round in his forehead. The Ghost chirps, squawks. It is only damaged. Shayura holsters her Sidearm again. 

"Shay!" Reed shouts, dropping his Scout Rifle and rushes over to her. This time, though, Shayura expels a blast of force from her palm that knocks Reed onto his back. She turns to the Ghost again, gripping her Sword in both hands, only to feel a sudden stabbing cold rise up her legs and arms. 

Reed watches as blue-black ice crusts over Shayura's legs, snuffs out her fire, and freezes her arm solid, Sword and all. Feather-ice bristles off of her body along with waves of visible cold. Reed's focus snaps to Aisha, one hand extended and waves of cold emanating from her outstretched palm. She had saved the Ghost from Shayura, but the power she wields—he knows it isn't the Light. 

He knows this will change everything.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Helm

Drifter leaned his seat back, hands behind his head. He sat in an Arcadia-class jumpship as it roared over a supply train heading into the City. The Titan who owned the ship, sitting next to him, cursed as she tried to align the vessel with the speeding train below.

"This better be worth it," she growled.

"I told you, you'll get twice the rate for Motes in your next Gambit. I'm good for it. Trust." Drifter sat up straight. "Get in close. I'll take care of the rest. Just make sure I get a ride back."

As he opened the ship's side hatch, howling air rushed into the cabin. He yelled over the din, "Good thing ya'll aren't a military. It's easier to bribe you this way."

"Go play in the Ascendant Plane," the Titan yelled back.

Drifter leapt off the ship and landed deftly on the train car below. He pulled a massive hand cannon and crawled forward, the wind ripping at his duster.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Gauntlets

Drifter had a problem.

He had figured this was a train guarded by Redjacks. He had killed two of them out in the back of this car.

He could see the supply crates he was looking for just past the shoulders of two massive Titans. Their armor was branded with Crucible insignias, which meant Drifter would have to be careful in his negotiations. They raised their rifles at him. Jiangshi AR4s. Nice pieces.

"Whoa. Hey," Drifter began, and raised his arms to the roof. "Not lookin' for trouble."

They looked at each other. Then considered him a second.

"What the hell are you doing here, Drifter?" said the one on the left.

Drifter chuckled. "Joxer. How you livin'?"

"Don't let him charm you," whispered the one on the right.

"Redrix?" Drifter had found himself a couple of Gambit regulars. "Listen. Brothers. I gotta get to those supply crates back there. You know how hard it is for me to come across certain pieces. I'm a scavenger. Live a hard life. Cut me some slack."

"Zavala wouldn't like that, Drifter," said Joxer.

Drifter raised an eyebrow. "You tellin' me the Vanguard actually has power over you?"

They didn't respond.

Drifter leaned in. "Listen. You do this for me, and I'll make sure you get paid. Just show up for Gambit next week. Double rate for Motes."

The Titans looked at each other again.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Plate

Drifter could see Redjacks from his vantage point on the train car roof. Two of Lord Shaxx's idiot frames were guarding the door to the car. The Drifter holstered his hand cannon and drew a long blade instead. He vaulted down to the deck below and took the frames' heads with an arcing sweep, sheathing his sword and catching the bodies before they fell. Complete silence.

Two Redjacks meant more Redjacks. He didn't want to start a firefight. As he entered the car and ducked low, he couldn't help but chuckle. They try so hard, the Redjacks. And yet the average 'Jack didn't last more than three missions.

Gambit was popular with Crucible Guardians—and they spoke frequently about the legend of Arcite and Dahlia, veteran Redjacks dating back to the early Last City. Drifter would believe it when he met them. He kept moving.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Greaves

Drifter found what he was looking for. Three long containers marked "Tex Mechanica."

He slid a long blade under each lid and cracked them open. Rifles, sidearms, and… hand cannons. Drifter pulled a cannon out of the long box, held it up in the dim light.

No one made Dark Age guns anymore. Drifter had looked far and wide. The one source of Dark Age weaponry in this system was him. Gambit.

Dark Age weapons had been forged at a time when Light fought Light. Everything was just a little more efficient back then. And lethal. In Drifter's opinion, of course.

But Tex Mechanica? They came close. They made very reliable cannons. Drifter stared hard at the one he held. The stuff of legend.

The train car jostled, snapping him out of his daydream.

He took everything he could carry.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Mark

Drifter made his way back towards the rear of the train, from where he had come. He passed Joxer and Redrix, who had apparently found the Redjacks Drifter had decapitated. The two scrambled to put the frames back together before the train reached the City.

"You guys need to take a load off," Drifter told them.

"Go to hell, Drifter," said Redrix, clearly annoyed.

He and Joxer stared at all the Tex Mechanica pieces Drifter wore. They looked like they were having second thoughts. Drifter unslung a rocket launcher so he could sit down with them.

"Listen. Brothers. I'm doing all this for a reason. Gambit's for a reason. You think I like going out there with you every day? You're all psychos. No. I don't like it. But I do it because there's good reason."

He pulled a Mote of Dark out of his pocket. It glowed coldly. "Think about how many Motes of Light you've collected over your lifetime. A lot, right?"

"I miss my Mythoclast," Joxer said. Drifter could hear the frown in his voice.

"Yeah, you had a Mythoclast! And still the Cabal took the Tower. The Light failed you. Failed me, too."

Drifter held the Mote of Dark up to them. "This, though. It's something special. I made 'em. And you've seen the things you can do when you find even a handful of 'em. Think long and hard about it." Drifter slung the launcher back on his shoulder and turned to leave without looking back.

"Stick with me long enough, and I'll show you what the dark can really do."

<|endoftext|>

Illicit Reaper Mark

"She was a snake." —A Dark Age drifter

**

The first time he met her, the starkest thing about her was her tattoo. A snake, coiled on her arm. He would remember that snake when he realized he needed a symbol to motivate the masses in another lifetime. For a game he called Gambit.

It was before the rise of the place humanity would come to call the Last Safe City. He was a true drifter floating from place to place like smoke. Some people had taken to calling him Drifter. He had many names, and he went by none of them.

She knew him then as Eli. And the second time he met her, he asked, "Would you like to dance before you go?"

"Not now," she had said.

"Wait, what did you think I said?" he asked.

"Would you like to dance?" she repeated.

"I would love to," he said, and stepped forward with his arms in the air.

She chuckled.

He paused.

"This has never worked before," he said.

He joined her in the Pilgrim Guard. They fought alongside each other. He saved her life. She saved his.

He was convinced she was his best friend.

He was wrong. One day, he never saw her again.

Not as she was.

<|endoftext|>

Mask of Rull

The Clipse had only celebrated their first century of global peace when the cataclysm struck. A flash of interstellar gamma radiation killed every living thing in their western hemisphere, poisoned the atmosphere, and destroyed all technological civilization. 

As the surviving Clipse clawed back to subsistence cave farming, they met a new horror. The radiation had burnt a mysterious signal into the comets and asteroids of their system, and as this debris rained down on their world, it seeded hideous alien life. 

Millennia later, they had become a civilization that knew only war—a culture that revered the gun, batteries of planetary defense weapons holding back an endless poison sky-fall. The moon Kaga-Clipse bristled with interceptors, ready to fend off any threat. They were no match for the Leviathan.

<|endoftext|>

Gauntlets of Rull

The greatest warriors of the Clipse lay dead. They formed a bloody trail through the Leviathan. Only Rull had lived to see the throne room. 

Calus calmly sipped his wine and considered Rull from the height of his golden seat. 

"Are you hungry?" 

Rull stared dumbfounded, bleeding and exhausted. He didn't know what to make of a creature that would casually offer sustenance and slaughter in equal measure. 

"I offer you a warrior's paradise, Rull of the Clipse. Join me, and be counted among the lucky few that might see the end of this world." 

What could Rull do but accept?

<|endoftext|>

Chassis of Rull

Rull gathered his cloak around him tightly as he pushed his way through the teeming marketplace. All around him, Cabal stumbled and pushed their way towards the celebration. No one seemed to question his identity as a foreign merchant, but his heart still raced. 

Rull thought about the mission that Emperor Calus had given him. 

"I'm sending you to the Cabal homeworld, Rull. There's a celebration, and you are to be a bearer of my gifts—the finest wines and spirits the universe has to offer." 

Rull was disappointed. He wanted to bring down great beasts, not assassinate old Cabal aristocrats. 

"Oh, Rull. Don't fret. I promised you a warrior's paradise and you shall have it. The gifts will buy you access to some of my former friends. I haven't spoken to them in some time, and well, I'd like them to know I haven't forgotten."

<|endoftext|>

Greaves of Rull

He arrived at the estate of Iska'al, former friend and confidante of the exiled Emperor Calus. It took surprisingly little to convince the guards to grant him entrance. The Cabal must truly be crazy for the wine he offered up as a gift. It was a day of celebration, after all. Who knows how deep into their cups these guards were? 

Once inside, he spotted his mark. Rull wasted no time. He removed the sheath from the end of his staff to reveal a spear-tip. Iska'al fell backwards and attempted to crawl away as his guards were skewered. Rull grabbed a cask of wine and pounced on the terrified old creature, pouring the wine down his throat. Iska'al choked and sputtered and flailed helplessly. Rull delivered his message as promised. 

"Emperor Calus has not forgotten you." 

Rull didn't stop pouring until he felt Iska'al go limp. 

Rull was covered in the sticky black and violet of Cabal blood and wine. He dropped Iska'al's body to the floor with a soft thud. Just then, Moli the Celebrant entered the courtyard.  When Rull realized that his second target had carelessly walked alone into a secluded space in the midst of a massive celebration on the Cabal homeworld, he thought, "Perhaps this is the warrior's paradise that Emperor Calus promised."

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Mark

Rull activated his staff's secondary configuration and fired a harpoon into Moli's exposed flank. The barbs pierced deep, and the giant beast of a Cabal let out a monstrous howl. Blind with pain, he began to run, dragging Rull behind like a harpooned whale dragging a ship. 

The honored Celebrant Moli ran through the streets of the Cabal homeworld on celebration day, howling in agony and dragging Rull behind. It was such a spectacle that no one was sure what exactly was happening or what to do about it. 

Moli ran all the way to Dominus Ghaul's ceremony and right up the steps before collapsing at his lord's feet. Rull realized that he now faced a choice—try to escape, or finish the job. 

Rull yanked out the harpoon before shoving it through Moli's neck. He had just enough time to pull off his helmet and smile in Ghaul's face before he was killed. 

Truly, Emperor Calus had delivered a warrior's paradise.

<|endoftext|>

Helm of the Emperor's Champion

The light of this universe will soon dim. You cannot see it yet, but I assure you, there will be no denying it when it comes. There will be no safety, and no defense. The only question you should ask yourself is, "Where do I want to be at the end?" 

From my vantage, I have cause to ask myself this question with some urgency. I will move soon, and I mean to choose the place from which I will watch all become darkness. I find it poetic and satisfying that you will be near.

<|endoftext|>

Gauntlets of the Emperor's Champion

When you imagine the last moments of all life in this universe, what do you see? Is it struggle, war, and death? Are you fighting to the last breath? Are you suffering? 

I am not. In those last moments, I am surrounded by joy, pleasure, and good company. I am the last thing that they see. They give to me the greatest gift—the last of the living acknowledge that I, above all other beings, was real.

<|endoftext|>

Cuirass of the Emperor's Champion

I've known you through many lives now: gladiator, Primus, usurper. With each new incarnation, I think we learn a little more about each other. How many more lives before our relationship becomes complete? 

But this life is my last, because there is no further that I can go. When next we meet, you will face one who has transcended even the gods. What will you be?

<|endoftext|>

Greaves of the Emperor's Champion

What sad turns has your life taken since my exile? When you look upon the dour face of the Consul, do you feel the nauseous twinge of regret? Do you find solace in a meditative state—a lonely island in a sea of incessant blathering? 

I wonder what portion of your life is spent pondering how else it might have been. All of those possibilities must pile up behind you like a chorus of furies, each whispering doubts in your ear. When next we meet, the volume of that chorus will become deafening, and you will finally understand the totality of your mistake.

<|endoftext|>

Mark of the Emperor's Champion

Did you know Ghaul once fought as a gladiator? He was so striking and different… yes, because of his strange color and markings, but also his movement. He weaved through his opponents, tying together the thread of a grand design only he could see. 

There was no opponent too large or powerful for Ghaul; his determination was everything. I see that strength in you, my dear Titan.

<|endoftext|>

Mask of Nohr

Valus Nohr wore this last; she who was the greatest Phalanx of her time. On our long journey back from the deep, she fought in the campaign to bring the Clipse into my fold. In the final stretch of that war, the Clipse took her arm. She took their principal city.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Gauntlets of Nohr

The Valus desired true agency, and perished before she received it. Such is the life of a Shadow, and a common occurrence among their kind. It's their one commonality.

She was a Loyalist to the end, and I could not have asked for a better warrior and confidant at my side all these years. She was Cabal through and through. One of the last.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Plate of Nohr

On the day I lost the Shadows, Ghaul fought and killed Valus Nohr last, only after her bladed shield took the heads off three hundred of his soldiers.

I will miss her, and regret that she did not live to see the coming end. So few of us will.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Greaves of Nohr

Of all the Shadows, Valus Nohr was perhaps my keenest tactician. She had a great skill for translating my wishes into sweeping and deadly stratagems. In taking her place, I would expect a new Shadow to share in her ability to plot an operation—and personally carry it out.

Guardians have a tribe for that, don't they? I see them contest with my Loyalists all the time, meeting force with force. Perhaps one of them could take her place.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Mark of Nohr

As I watch your continual triumphs, I think that perhaps YOU can take the Valus's place, Guardian. You're brave. Combat-tested. Cunning. You have all the hallmarks of a Shadow. You're ready for training.

If you desire true power, power beyond your Traveler's feeble Light, seek me out.

I will show you how to grow fat from strength.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Turris Shade Helm

The Cabal I knew were natural leaders, with the ability to drive cultivation. That they excelled at war was the result of their gentility. Our debate chambers were glorified as much as our battlefields.

And look at us now. Who is this Valus that leads the Red Legion astray? His name already escapes me. Were if not for him, I would gladly accept them back into my fold. Perhaps I can redeem the Red Legion.

Before the Red War, the Cabal at least had their dear Dominus Ghaul.

More than ever, my empire needs me. And I need you.

A Shadow of your Guardian-tribe would serve to remind the Cabal of what they once were. Proud. Unbroken. Vicious in war. Civilized in peace. And all it would take is what you're already doing.

Continue to advance. Drive them before you. Force them to change, or die.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Turris Shade Gauntlets

The Cabal I knew would have held your City, kept your Tower. “Through divine right,” I would have said, before my exile to the black edge. I've since learned there is no such thing, that there is only the end. What then, was the difference? Cultivation.

Your people have not triumphed over the Cabal because of the Light. We've fought the Light before you, and though it has assured you victory thus far, there are ways to defeat it without taking it. The Red Legion have simply forgotten how.

You and your Guardian-tribe are more disciplined, enlightened. You are the greatest fighting force this system has ever seen, and yet, despite your brutish predilections, you are… cultured, elite. With few exceptions, what you take you hold. And you thrive. True, the Red Legion managed to conquer your City. But in the end, you took everything from them, and you stand firmer than ever before.

A Shadow of your Guardian-tribe would be the ideal taskmaster to train the armies of the empire. To batter them to dust before making them anew, in your broad-shouldered image.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Turris Shade Plate

The Cabal I knew understood mental fortitude. I don't speak of the psychokinetic abilities of the Psions, but the sheer force of will mustered by the foot soldiers who served me. Even my Loyalists have grown soft over the ages. We have fallen so far from enlightenment.

But when I look to your Guardian-tribe, I see glimmers of the Cabal I knew. Rushing headlong into battle, your bodies themselves weapons. Your kind dies over nothing. I've seen it.

Your deaths lack permanence, but does that make it any easier? As you're shredded alive by a warbeast, or scattered to the winds by psionic projection? Even the best of you are regularly sewn together by your Ghosts. And you persist with the same fervor every time.

A Shadow of your Guardian-tribe would be the ideal teacher to bring this selfless state of mind back to the empire. I will ensure that my Loyalists are… willing learners.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Turris Shade Greaves

The Cabal I remember were fierce hand-to-hand combatants. We learned and shared techniques from countless indoctrinated races. No longer. Red Legion training is like Red Legion weaponry—all bluster and noise. Ghaul was… acceptable. But Ghaul was special.

How we once delighted in throwing our bones into the soft tissues of our enemies. We devised ingenious ways to dance and weave to better throw them.  Just like you.

Your Guardian-tribe holds the delivery of personal combat in great esteem. It's an art to you. I can tell in how you treasure each strike. You savor them. The sensation of your bones breaking bones, smashing vital organs.

Add the Light and you have a perfect expression of destruction.

The false empire will never have the Light. Not again. But a Shadow of your Guardian-tribe would be ideal to guide them, to teach them to move themselves once again. And throw their bones.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Turris Shade Mark

You've shown the Red Legion you fly my banner. I know that when the time is right, I won't have to ask. You're on my side.

I see it when your body becomes a weapon with which you obliterate your opponents, when your knuckles become a part of your foe's countenance, when you smash them with your Light. And it is captivating. But Earth casts no Shadow. Not yet.

When you're ready, you will be magnificent. A Guardian of Guardians. Shadow of Shadows.

I reserve the right to be last when the end comes, and for that, I will need you with me.

You're so close.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Helm of the Great Hunt

[The Queen] would like to improve her means of [bargaining] with me. She has implied that I use the space between words to make [bargains] to my advantage.

How dare she.

She knows me so well.

What [the Queen] wants, the Techeun move worlds to obtain. And so the Witches devise an impossible machine that speaks a visual language with very few spaces between its words. This machine speaks [wishes]. Makes [bargains].

The Wall of [Wishes], it is called.

If the Techeun's design proves correct, it will be difficult for me to interpret the [wishes] made at the Wall to my advantage. But challenges entice me.

I look upon the Wall. Upon the Witches' visual language for [bargains]. For me, it is a menu of delights to feast upon.

<|endoftext|>

Gauntlets of the Great Hunt

I am [Riven]. My work on the Dreaming [City] is complete.

I have done everything [the Queen] asked of me. But this is a [bargain].

I did so much more than that.

[The Queen] and her ilk will not understand for some time, though I think [the Queen] can see the signs. What I carved into the small corners. In the Wall of [Wishes] itself.

This will be a beautiful [City].

But not a safe [City].

<|endoftext|>

Plate of the Great Hunt

Joxer checked the safety on his rifle for the ninth time.

Illyn of the Techeun stepped out of the greyness before him. A massive, coffin-shaped container levitated at her side.

"You won't need that," Illyn said of the rifle.

Joxer kept it in his hands.

 "All that Light and still your key motivation is fear. It's fear that drives you to ask the Queen for help."

"The Ahamkara are blasting and paving entire regions of Venus," he said.

"They wouldn't be so base. They're re-writing Venus."

"Whatever. It's a problem I can't punch. Do you have guns that will help, or not?"

The massive container lowered itself before the Titan. Illyn lifted the lid and pale cosmic light from within reflected off Joxer's eyes.

"Long rifles. Close quarters weapons. Silent killers in the night. All yours to borrow. You must return these when your Hunt is complete."

"Why?" Joxer frowned.

"Those are the conditions of her bargain. Take it or leave it."

"Her? The Queen?"

Illyn didn't respond.

Joxer took the entire container on his back.

<|endoftext|>

Greaves of the Great Hunt

So the Dreaming City would have a Wall, too. Leona Bryl stared up at rows of blank, circular plates with dread.

This one was more valuable than everything behind the Wall of the Last City.

And not nearly as defensible.

The Tower has asked for help in its Great Hunt. If the Vanguard knew that the help the Queen rendered came at the behest of the Ahamkara, armies of Guardians would storm the Reef. So they will never know.

The Guardians brought this on themselves. The bargains they made, and the power and knowledge they gained was equivalent to the chaos wrought on this system by whispers. The Queen was glad to help them clean the mess if it meant Riven would be the last living Ahamkara. Power is useful. Unique power more so.

Leona wasn't sure if she was as glad as the Queen.

<|endoftext|>

Mark of the Great Hunt

Mara stared at the Wall of Wishes. She had no more bargains to make. Her plans were in motion.

There was nothing left but the wait.

She pulled a sidearm from a hidden holster and cracked a dozen rounds into the Wall.

The cosmic balance shifted. Somewhere in the Dreaming City, Riven heard the Queen's wish and a thousand shrieking tears in reality cut through the space in front of her.

Lord Shaxx suddenly blocked Mara's view of the Wall.

"—YES, AND WE'D ALL BE DEAD!" He was screaming at no one, with a mug of caffeine in his fist.

He started, almost spilling his coffee. "Where are we?"

Mara slapped the mug out of his hand. It shattered on the floor. She shoved a weathered book in his face. "I told you there would come a time when I collect for the Reef Wars. Read this. Out loud."

"No one tells me what to do," he said, grabbing the book and incinerating it in a bolt of Striker lightning. "I can recite The Tempest by heart." And he did. Mara sat and listened. They stayed for a long time. 

The helmet stayed on.

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Helm

I thank you for freeing Gahlran, the Sorrow-Bearer from his waking death beneath the Crown of Sorrow.

Speaking of which.

Don't your kind love to tempt Hive artifacts?

I've been familiarizing myself with Guardian histories, and they say one of you worshipped the Hive to the extent that he betrayed the Light. If this story isn't a sham, a Shadow of your Titan-tribe would be perfect for replacing Gahlran. I need someone hearty like you to carry the Crown in his place.

Will you wear it when I ask you? Because the day will come.

You don't have to answer right now. Think about it. And take this helm in its place for now.

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Gauntlets

The Hive left the Crown of Sorrow on one of their war moons, and my Shadows waged such a campaign to take it. We did. And we converted it into an Athenaeum world.

But the Crown was a trap. A trap for me. I suspected as much.

Which is why I did not wear it.

After initial tests, my Psions determined it was a seeing device of sorts, feeding all sorts of data to someone or something deep in the Ascendant Plane.

But seeing devices look both ways. I had to have it. And I had to have someone wear it.

Because I believed I could control the Hive through a Shadow surrogate. The Hive are not true darkness, not what I saw at the black edge. But they would provide an army just the same.

Proud Gahlran was bred specifically to bring them under my control.

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Plate

You've no doubt visited the ritual baths aboard the Leviathan, have you not? If you haven't, you must.

And true, it is a place of recreation for my beloved soldiers, but did you know that they are born there? Yes, the joyful, axe-wielding ceremonial bathers are but seconds into their lives when you cut them down.

They are created from genetic patterns of the most virile martial artists of a bygone Cabal era.

And Gahlran, the Sorrow-Bearer, was once one of them. I played with his pattern, made certain he would be strong of mind and will as much as body.

He had but one purpose: bear the Crown of Sorrow and make the Hive mine.

Imagine my chagrin when his very personality was annihilated within minutes of exposure. Whatever viral language was etched into the Crown's interior had taken over.

Until you ended him, he belonged to a witch.

—Emperor Calus

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Greaves

We found the Crown of Sorrow on a stray war moon. The Psions guessed that the ritual texts surrounding it claimed it was crafted in imitation of the Taken King's power to compel wills.

It did the opposite, of course, and consumed my Loyalist Gahlran.

That was my first encounter with the witch. She has been plaguing all my Loyalists since then, as a sort of viral language. Perhaps even you.

But she can be beaten. The Hive are not true beings of the dark. Not compared to what I met at the black edge.

Not compared to me.

I shall find her and her Ascendant Plane before the end. And we will have words.

—Emperor Calus

<|endoftext|>

Penumbral Mark

Warlock Aunor Mahal stood before the Vanguard in one of the Tower's war rooms.

"We have Shadows of Calus to deal with now," the Warlock said, dropping a data tablet in front of Ikora Rey and Commander Zavala. "And I'm assuming we should let them?"

"Guardians go to where the guns are. And where the fighting is," Zavala said, picking up the tablet and cycling through its holographic projections, profiles of Guardians in golden Loyalist armor. "There are only a few Shadows of Earth on record."

 "There will be more. Just give them time."

Zavala finished with the tablet, set it aside. "What would you have me do?" he asked.

"Give me a fireteam of veterans. We'll hollow out the Leviathan in a week. Maybe less."

"Some of them don't trust you," Ikora said, with a small, sad smile.

"You do," Aunor replied.

"Always," Zavala said quickly.

"There are veterans who do, too," Aunor added. "So let me pick a unit. We'll find the Emperor."

Zavala shook his head. "A single machine aboard that thing took an entire fireteam to burn down. How far do you think we'd get in open war with Calus?"

"So we're just going to stand idly by? Again?" A crescent of lightning flickered between Aunor's eyes as if to punctuate her point.

"He's not an ally," Zavala said slowly. "But he's an enemy of the Red Legion. And right now, he's keeping them in check."

"The Guardians kept them in check. When they kicked the Legion's head in during the War," Aunor replied.

"Calus's influence on the Guardians will collapse under the weight of his lies."

"Have you met the Drifter?"

"We're not a military," Ikora said finally. "What the Guardians do is what they'll do. Every team that engages with Calus reports back. If he makes a wrong move, you'll be on the first strike team out."

Aunor took her duster off her chair and headed out the door without another word.

When it closed, Zavala said, "She's not wrong."

"Her motivations are never wrong," Ikora returned. "She'll watch them for us. Whether we ask her to or not."

<|endoftext|>

Helm of Righteousness

"How about now?"

"Still nothing."

Yardarm-4 squinted up at his Ghost. "You sure?"

"Of course I'm sure. There are no Vex within at least a mile."

"What about—?"

"They're on their way back now. What do you think they were doing?"

Yardarm-4 rolled his eyes and kicked a stone over the cliff's edge. "Oh, come on. You've got all those sensors and you can't pick up on the signals they're sending?"

Yardarm-4's Ghost bobbed in the air, visibly acting out its waffling thoughts. "I—"

"Hey, don't worry about it. I'm not jealous."

"You're not?" His Ghost sounded shocked.

"Boy, you really don't get people do you?"

Yardarm-4 watched his Ghost shift its gaze around, trying to make up some excuse for itself.

"Hey, it's OK," he said. "I don't need you for that. I just need you to watch my back. I'll take care of the team dynamic. Rekkana might be the captain, but the good ship Kentarch needs sails if it's going to go anywhere."

"And the sails are you?"

"Yup. And the anchor, too."

"OK," his Ghost said, shifting its shell and trying to work through the metaphor. "What is Lisbon-13?"

"The rudder."

"The… rudder? I don't get it."

"The rudder is attached to the tiller. If the ship doesn't have it, the captain can't steer. The ship is adrift at sea."

"So you'd be lost without him?"

"Lost? Nah. We'd know where we were. We just couldn't be sure where we'd end up."

"Wow. That's… deep. Hey, how do you know so much about ships?"

Yardarm-4 shrugged. "Just do. Always have."

"So… you're really not jealous?"

"Shut up. You really don't get people."

<|endoftext|>

Gauntlets of Exaltation

Yardarm-4's back ached, and his feet were sore from running. But now nothing threated them in this unnatural vale. He looked over at his companions. They looked as bad as he felt. A joke wouldn't cut it, then. He needed to say something that would get their hackles up.

"You underestimated them," Yardarm-4 said.

Lisbon-13 turned his head sharply, but Rekkana touched Lisbon-13's arm.

Good boy, Yardarm-4 thought. She keeps you on a tight leash. These ideas came to Yardarm-4 unbidden, and so he said nothing.

"Yes," Rekkana said. "But it has given us perspective."

"Perspective?" What utter crap. Yardarm-4 had been tired, just playing at anger, but now it felt real. Still, Rekkana never said anything without purpose. "What perspective is worth nearly dying for?"

Something passed between Rekkana and Lisbon-13. She did not answer, and Lisbon-13 leapt into the gap she left, as he always would. "Those defenses were insane." That was true enough. "The relays and tethers. The Angelics. The Vex really don't want us to be here. That means they consider this place a weakness."

It's good to see some color back in her cheeks, observed Yardarm-4. And Lisbon-13 has his chest puffed out like some—

"Yes, it's a weakness," Yardarm-4 said, although he hadn't meant to. More words issued from his mouth. "Perhaps it's their greatest weakness."

Yardarm-4 shut his mouth in bewildered astonishment. The sentiments weren't wrong. It wasn't that they were things he wouldn't say. It's just… he hadn't meant to say them.

"Yes. So we must—" Rekkana began, but then Lisbon-13 raised the weapon they'd claimed and scanned the area.

Yardarm-4 jolted—a hypnic jerk. He wasn't tired anymore. He raised his own gun. "What is that? Where's it coming from?"

Rekkana joined them in defense against the unknown, her shoulder brushing Yardarm-4 as she drew her gun. "I don't hear—"

"You. It's coming from you. Because you're a hero."

<|endoftext|>

Plate of Transcendence

Yardarm-4 spun, looking around the grotto.

"You hear that? Who is that?" Yardarm-4 had to stop himself from shouting.

"I hear it," Rekkana and Lisbon-13 said as one. A chill ran through him. How had they heard the voice if it was in his head?

All three Guardians called for their Ghosts.

"Ghost?" Yardarm-4 was first. "What have we got?"

Yardarm-4 started walking away even as his compatriots began talking with them.

"What are you looking for?" his Ghost asked.

"Anything. Everything. I… I'm not… Scan me. Look for something, someone else."

"Wow. OK…" His Ghost didn't understand, but it did as asked. "So, uh, what exactly am I look—?"

Yardarm-4 watched his Ghost's scan sputter out. Then the Ghost fell and clattered across the ground.

As Yardarm-4 picked it up, he felt his Light fading.

"Yardarm, Lisbon, you OK?" Rekkana asked from somewhere distant.

"Yeah. Sure." But Yardarm-4 did not feel OK, and he was not sure about anything.

<|endoftext|>

Greaves of Ascendancy

Yardarm-4 watched Lisbon-13 brood.

He'll turn her against us.

Never.

We've welcomed him. He accepted our gifts. Yet now he fears us. Does that seem right to you?

No. But he always was an odd one.

The thought came to Yardarm-4 with a surprising amount of warmth. Lisbon-13 was his friend.

"We didn't come here for this," Lisbon-13 started.

"Of course not. Who could have predicted it?" Rekkana interjected. "But now, with all that's happened, does it matter what our mission was? This is so much more important."

"And awesome. Don't forget how awesome this feels," Yardarm-4 blurted. He meant to say more, to express something better and deeper than "awesome," but then Lisbon-13 jumped in.

"But these things—these powers we've been given—they come from the wrong side."

Rekkana couldn't look at him. "I'm not so sure."

How could she not be certain? What difference did it make, what side they came from?

"You remember on Io," Yardarm-4 said, stepping forward, "we were pinned down inside that shipping container with Phalanxes closing in from all sides, and you—you bastard. You ducked out a little hole in the back and made a run for it. I thought you'd left us behind."

"Never," spat Lisbon-13.

He means it. That's good.

"I know," Yardarm-4 continued. "The whole box was rattling with bullets, and there were explosions, and we were shooting when we could, and suddenly, through it all, I heard you screaming. It was like a banshee wail. You came screaming back on an Interceptor—the Psion still in it. You were steering it with the Psion's head!"

"I remember," said Lisbon-13 as he tried to step around Yardarm-4, but Yardarm-4 held firm and tried to catch his gaze.

"And you rammed it through four Phalanxes from the side, and then, and then—you remember this, Rekkana?"

"I can't forget."

Good. No one should forget.

"You splashed that Interceptor across the shields of another Phalanx, and you RODE THE EXPLOSION over the top. And when you hit the ground behind them, BOOM! It was the most beautiful thing I'd ever seen."

Lisbon-13 stopped and looked Yardarm-4 in the eyes.

This is it. This is the chance to turn the tide.

"That's us right now. We're doing what you did. This whole universe is like that container, and the Last City, the Vanguard, the Traveler—they're all inside that box. But we just snuck out of a hole in the back. And there's that Interceptor, and there's not even a Psion in it."

Lisbon-13 narrowed his eyes. He's thinking about it!

"But here the metaphor gets a little muddy, because instead of one Interceptor, there's an Interceptor for you, a Goliath for me, and a Thresher for Rekkana. What would that fight have looked like if we'd had all their firepower on our side?" Yardarm-4 ended, triumphant, almost breathless with admiration and love for his fireteam.

Lisbon-13's lip curled, and Yardarm-4 felt the shift as something almost physical. In his mind's eye, he saw a captain's wheel spinning wild and free.

"Something ugly," Lisbon-13 snarled and turned away.

<|endoftext|>

Temptation's Mark

"This isn't how the story is supposed to end," Rekkana said, seeming dazed.

"It's not over yet. We'll win this." Rekkana didn't look convinced. Yardarm-4 changed tack. "Listen, Lisbon's been holding back. He's afraid to use his new powers. So, in a straight-up fight against him, the advantage is ours, in numbers and strength."

"No."

"No?"

"Lisbon isn't afraid. He's angry. Desperate. He feels betrayed," said Rekkana. She was clear-eyed again, scanning their surroundings for signs of another ambush.

"HE feels betrayed?" It was a ludicrous idea. "He turned on us!"

"Yes, but it's because he doesn't see us as friends anymore."

"Well, he's got that part right. How'd he get so twisted? We all took the deal. And look at us now!"

Rekkana did look at herself, and then at him. "Did we do the right thing?"

Rekkana doubting herself? It was disorienting. He had to get her to focus.

"Of course we did. And we're going to return to the City and share what we've learned with your order. But first we have to make it out of the Black Garden. Listen, we don't have to fight Lisbon. But if we're going to avoid a showdown, we gotta know what he's planning."

Rekkana nodded.

"OK, so does he hit us from behind or block us? Should we expect more Vex to get funneled toward us?"

Rekkana closed her eyes. Her breathing slowed. Yardarm-4 kept an eye on their surroundings, but he glanced back at Rekkana often, to see the flicker of REM on her eyelids.

After a few minutes, Rekkana's breath quickened, and she opened her eyes.

"It's no use. There are too many possible threads to plot our paths."

"It's OK. We'll go where the wind blows us," Yardarm-4 mumbled.

"What?"

"I said, we'll chart our own course. We'll write our story as we live it."

Yardarm-4 put on a smile he didn't feel, and Rekkana pretended she had not heard what he'd first said.

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Helm

High above the Last City, tucked in one of the Tower's many alcoves, Cayde-6 thumbs through an old book. Plucked from the Speaker's library, it's become delicate with age, or so he assumes, taking extra care turning each page. His sense of touch is good; there's certainly enough circuitry in his metal fingers to pull off the most precise of shots. But even a hair-trigger touch might rip the brittle paper… 

Cayde pauses on a page. "If sailor tales and sailor tunes, storm and adventure, heat and cold—"

Suddenly, a gust of surprisingly icy wind nearly rips the book from Cayde's hands. "To hell with this godforsaken ice cube!" he shouts, almost falling from his perch. 

He steadies himself and inhales deeply. Hang on there, Cayde. You're not on any ice cube, godforsaken or otherwise. You're on Earth, in the Last City.

But the memory lingers, like the floating neon outlines seconds after a blinding camera flash. The snow-white plains of a distant moon, a sarcophagus of ice and iron.

—flash—

Yes, that's what Europa feels like to Cayde-1 as he loads crate after crate onto the bay outside the Exoscience factory. Even the sky has turned a flat gray, casting all beneath it in dull, deadening light. A warning sky, he thinks. Sailors had some kinda rhyme for it, didn't they?

Either way, it hardly makes for a motivating work environment. Cayde sits on one of the crates. "I'm taking a break," he announces. "Need to or not, this is when we used to have lunch. I refuse to work through lunch."

Next to him, Knox-4 sighs with relief and longing. "I miss lunch. I miss getting hungry."

Cayde grins as much as his mechanical face will allow. "Hmm…" he intones in his best Dr. Abrams impression, "So you would say… you're hungry for hunger?"

Knox bursts into guffaws. Cayde chuckles weakly. It wasn't that funny. But as his friend's laughter grows, so does Cayde's. Soon, they're both clutching each other and howling. 

Then, gradually, their cheer fades. "What do you tell that shrink, by the way?" Knox asks. "You tell him about the whisper?"

Cayde shakes his head. Before he can snark about the uselessness of psychologists, the whisper rings in his metal skull. It's red sky in morning, sailor's warning. But you are no sailor. 

A whimper squeaks out from the loading bay. A moment later, a short snowsuitted figure scrambles out, racing for the far end of the factory. Cayde and Knox shout, taking off after the eavesdropper. No sharpshooter yet, Cayde fumbles for his BrayTech-issued handgun, aims shakily and…

—bang—

Cayde-6 comes back to himself just as he stumbles into his hideout. He rifles through the piles of loot, until… "Aha!" He finds a pen. Cayde-6 isn't done yet. He flips open the book, no longer being careful with the pages, and starts scrawling. 

"Spend time with an Exo who's been through it like we have and you'll see all the tells…"

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Gauntlets

"Suzume?" Shiro asked.

His Ghost materialized beside him in the cockpit. "Yes?"

"Why Shiro-4?"

Suzume spun 45 degrees clockwise and peered closer at the Exo, her equivalent of a raised eyebrow. "You'll have to elaborate."

"Sure. Sure," he said and waved away his Ghost's evident concern. "No, I mean, why the name?"

"It's your name."

"But you could have told me any name when you woke me up, and I'd have believed you."

This time, Suzume executed a slow counter-clockwise spin that Shiro had come to interpret like pursed lips.

"Well, yes, I suppose so. But your name is encoded in you—like how the color of someone's eyes exists in their DNA. You are Shiro-4."

"Huh. Why 'Shiro' then, I wonder."

"Hard to say. In the language of old Japan, the meaning of 'shiro' depends on context. Mostly, it means white, but perhaps castle."

"Don't feel like a castle. White seems odd."

"It can also mean…" Suzume's light blinked. "Innocence or purity."

"Hah!"

"I thought that might get a laugh. Why the sudden interest in your name?"

"I've been thinking a lot about everything we're learning from Europa. I've always thought that we're defined by our choices—that we are the good and the bad that we choose to do. But we're also defined by the choices of others. I didn't choose to be a Guardian. And my name, I didn't choose that either. Did I even choose to be an Exo?"

"So…" Suzume bobbed unsteady in the air, unused to so much soul searching. "Does that mean you want a new name?"

"Hmm. No. I guess not…"

Suzume spun 45 degrees clockwise and peered again at him.

"…because I've already chosen what Shiro-4 means to me."

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Plate

Lisbon-13's Ghost, Piri, quavered, "What have we done?"

"What was necessary."

Lisbon-13 raised his gun toward her.

"Was it? Did we really—whoa!" Piri cried and dove away as a beam of energy vaporized the tangle of vines through which she flew. 

Lisbon realized Divinity was too slow. He switched to his Hand Cannon.

Shards of stone from a nearby explosion suddenly battered Piri's shell. She had hoped she could talk her way out of this. But there was no time to think—just run.

"Listen, Lisbon! Please!" Piri pleaded. Each word was punctuated by a roar from his gun. She dodged the resulting explosions along the terrain. "Honestly, if you want to shoot me, I'll let you! Just stop and tell me why first!"

A grenade whirled through the air in response. Piri had seen this tactic too many times to be fooled. She zipped toward the falling explosive and sheltered under a shelf of rock. The blast rattled her senses, but Piri didn't have time for them to clear. She sped through the smoking terrain, inches above the ground, knowing Lisbon would be looking for her flight to either side of the drifting cloud.

And then in an instant, the feet of Lisbon-13 materialized in the smoke before her. She nearly ran right into him. How did he do that, she wondered, to think like others and anticipate them? She knew she needed to talk. Fast!

"Uh, okay. First thing's first. You want to destroy me. Got it. But why? What's next?" she asked.

Lisbon-13 remained silent.

Realization dawned. Piri bobbled in the air, shocked by her own conclusion. "…You want the secret to die with you. No… no, no, no. You can't kill yourself. You can't! Lisbon, there has to be another way."

Lisbon-13 looked up from his Ghost and through the wafting smoke. "She's right. This is not the way."

"What?"

Lisbon-13 was not looking at his Ghost. "It's not that the power is too terrible to wield. It's that the burden is too great to bear."

"Burden?" Piri asked. The Ghost dodged as Lisbon-13 suddenly stepped forward and brushed past her.

And stood, facing himself, once again.

The doppelganger—this other Lisbon-13—reached out and put a hand on the shoulder of the Lisbon-13 that stood a few paces behind Piri.

"You never doubted yourself. Not for a moment. The others revealed their weaknesses: their pride and self-absorption. But you remember what Rekkana said," it stated.

Lisbon-13 nodded. "If anyone can handle the responsibility of this power—"

"It's you," the doppelganger finished. "What you fear now is not the responsibility you have assumed. It is the burden…" the doppelganger said, glancing back at the Ghost, "…of having all this power and never getting what you want."

Lisbon-13 had seemed distant and cold to his fireteam and his Ghost. The arguments since the Black Garden, the fighting—oh, how she had pleaded to stop the fighting! All nails in the coffin of something dead within Lisbon-13—something killed by this doppelganger in the garden's grotto. But now, some of the old Lisbon's warmth blazed white hot as he shook off his double's hand. "You did this! You ruined everything," he said.

"We are all responsible for our choices. You chose this path. They chose theirs. Now is the time to select a new path. Together. We can help each other. We can free you from what you wanted. We can lighten your burden."

Piri knew what would happen next. She braced for the explosions and readied herself to leap to Lisbon's aid.

But none came.

"…Can you make me forget her?"

Lisbon-13's shadow-self embraced him. "Yes."

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Greaves

Micah-10 roams the rolling hills of Old Russia as she has done for many years now. As she may do for many years more. 

A pack of Ghosts trails behind her, their little blue eyes blinking over the landscape. Micah has helped many a Ghost in their search—it's much easier to find a Guardian while someone else looks out for Fallen scavengers—though she privately wishes they would help her for once. How hard can it be to find a functioning ship?!

Very hard when you need said ship to make it far out of the atmosphere, even possibly all the way to the Jovians. Because while her little companions seek out their futures, Micah has her own glowing eyes set firmly on the past—on the Deep Stone Crypt. 

She once thought it was hidden on Earth, buried underneath the snow drifts of Siberia, but now she suspects it's further out. In a much darker, lonelier place. Somewhere very cold, that she knows for certain. 

She's dreamt of it thousands of times, fought thousands of battles on the golden field beneath the black tower. And every fiftieth instance, in the midst of the chaos, an older man puts a paternal hand on her shoulder and says, "You just need to get acclimated. It's colder here than on Mars." Every hundredth time, she makes it into the tower and finds a different man sitting in an armchair, writing on a notepad. "Dreams are messages from deep inside your mind," he reminds her, "Until you figure out the message, the dream will repeat."

Every single time, no matter whom she sees or what she hears, Micah-10 wakes up, feeling something in her tug towards space. She tells herself some internal magnet must have gotten knocked loose, then curses the ones who made her. In humans, bodily sensation is a form of communication, the connection between the mental and physical. But in Exos, it's all a lie. Cold, heat, hunger, exhaustion, pain—the signals aren't connected to real lack or breakage. For the most part, her body is impervious. On the rare occasion she does break, she won't know it unless someone else tells her.

So, in that sense, the Ghosts do help her.

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Mark

Saint-14, like most Exos, dreamt of the Deep Stone Crypt often. The golden field. The looming black tower. The battle below, surging with faces that were eerily familiar. He was used to these dreams, like many of his mechanical kin, and resolutely uncurious about any deeper meaning. It couldn't be anything good, he reasoned long ago. Besides, his waking life kept him more than occupied.

However, since his return from the kaleidoscope depths of the Infinite Forest, the dreams had increased in frequency and in eeriness. 

For the first few weeks, instead of battle, he faced single opponents in duels: Osiris, Marin, Zavala, Ana—even the Guardian who rescued him from the Vex. No matter whom he fought, he would use all his energy and Light in the fight and lose every time. Flat on his back, he would look up at the tower and know that someone was watching from within. 

The night before Rasputin alerted everyone of Pyramid ships entering the system, winter fell on his dreamscape, forcing him to charge through pillowy snow drifts at a massive winged Vex, unlike any he'd seen. He lost that night as he would for many more nights, watching as an iridescent liquid—almost like Vex milk, but different, contaminated—flowed from his every joint, sizzling in the snow. 

During the waking day, he maintained his usual exuberance, taking great satisfaction in helping Guardians hone their craft in the Trials of Osiris. After all, the fights happening in reality were the ones to focus on. Why worry about what he can't control inside his head?

But then, the night before a new vacuum of grief was opened in the system, a woman appeared at the threshold of the tower. Her clothes were black; her hair prematurely gray. She watched, arms crossed, as Saint hurled grenade after flaming grenade at the Vex with little effect.

"You'll blind yourself with all that bright fire," she tutted. "Maybe then you'll finally learn to look instead of see."

In one mighty swipe, the Vex cut the Exo down. The woman sighed as Saint crumpled to the ground.

Silence fell, followed by the crunching of footsteps in the snow. "Just like your father," she said, kneeling by his head. "All of you." 

She laid a hand on the fore of his helm, as if feeling for a fever. "In your next life, you should take more after me."

With that, her hand slid down to his eyes and, for the brief moment before he woke up, all was dark.

<|endoftext|>

Brave Titan's Mark

Do you see the walls that surround the Last City? Picture them in your mind. They don't just protect our people. They also serve as a reminder— a reminder of what you are. 

You are a Titan. The wall against which evil breaks. The candle in the darkest of these days. The protector of the Traveler's last gifts. 

This City is your home. Its people are your blood. And its walls are your shields, your weapons, your temple. 

Take your place, Titan, and know this: when you fight for the Last City, you will never suffer defeat. 

– Zavala, Titan Vanguard

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Helm (Rekindled)

"Zavala, we did it! The shields are down!"

The Titan Vanguard looked to the sky. That Ghost was right: The topaz glow of the Cabal command ship's shields flickered and disintegrated. Zavala wasn't a man who smiled often, but there were a lot of firsts today.

"All friendlies, focus fire on that capital ship! The Tower does not fall today!" He launched himself from behind cover, weapon snapping to his shoulder, the not-smile still curling his lip. These Cabal were going to learn—

Severed.

It was like lava on his chest. Shock, pain, anger, emptiness. The breath rushed from his lungs, and his weapon clattered to the ground. The sounds of war buzzed into quiet. But no matter—he'd been lower than this. And his fists of thunder were more dangerous than any rifle. He drew upon the Light, and... nothing.

His eyes widened. He froze for an instant... and a Cabal slug took him in the side.

The Light is gone, he thought. Over and over. The Light is gone. Then: You're their leader. They need you. Now more than ever. Get up. Get up!

He roared in defiance, lurching back to his feet. He would see them all safe. Even if it meant his life.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Gauntlets (Rekindled)

Amanda was quiet, but Zavala could still hear the anger before her voice came back over the comms. "Due respect, Commander, I ain't got time to come be your chauffeur. There are thousands of people like me stranded down there in the City."

"The City is lost." He hated saying it, but he knew it in his bones. "And we're all the same now, Holliday. The Light is gone. We have to regroup."

"You mean run." Even angrier now. It was infectious.

"I mean live to fight another day. We don't have the luxury of rescue flights anymore. The longer we stay here, the tighter the noose."

"Then go! What's stopping you? You know how to fly a ship."

"Not like you. You're the best pilot in the system, Amanda. And you're the only one who can keep our ships in the air once we're away from Earth."

"Dammit, sir, we can't just leave them here."

"I've already made my decision. If humanity is to survive..." He'd leave the betting to Cayde, but he knew the odds were slim. "This is the only choice we have."

Silence. For a few seconds this time. "All right." Her voice cracked. He understood.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Plate (Rekindled)

He made himself look at the numbers. Seventy-three ships lost in the exodus. Seventy-three ships full of people looking to him for guidance. Guardians and civilians alike. All Zavala could give them was a noble death.

Almost none of the vessels had been outfitted with weapons. Transports and supply skiffs, barely holding together outside Earth's atmosphere, trying to punch through a fortified Red Legion blockade. Like prey animals limping through a pack of lions. It was a massacre.

The only reason the fleet made it past the Moon was because the Red Legion focused so heavily on Earth. In that, they seemed like the Cabal Zavala knew. Single-minded. Incapable of thinking more than a few moves ahead. But he knew this Dominus Ghaul wouldn't give up that easily. So they kept moving.

But what next? Zavala had a plan, of course. He always had a plan, Titan Vanguard or no. But what he really needed was information. He needed—

"Deputy Commander Sloane, reporting for duty, sir."

Zavala closed his eyes. And for a brief moment, he relaxed.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Greaves (Rekindled)

"Guardians: The City is lost. If there is any Light left in the system... we rally on Titan. Be brave."

Zavala released the record button and looked to the two of them again. Sloane's face revealed nothing, as usual. Amanda was faking an encouraging look. He sighed. "You don't like that one either."

Amanda looked at Sloane, then back to Zavala, clearly not sure what to say. It was Sloane who spoke. "Sir, you want your message to inspire this new resistance. The language you use is..." She was trapped between her usual loyalty and her usual bluntness.

"You make it sound like we've already lost." Amanda said, her hand hovering over the delete button. Zavala raised an eyebrow. She wasn't trapped by anything.

"Holliday's right, Commander. We're not burning the bulk of our fuel supply to get to Saturn and turtle up. You said it: We're going there to rally. People need something to rally to."

He looked down at the recorder for a long moment. When he spoke, his eyes were still downcast. "They need to know the truth. I owe them that. Activate the beacon."

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Mark (Rekindled)

"Confirmed, sir. Nearly one hundred percent of the Arcology is infested. And... we lost both teams."

Zavala didn't turn to face Sloane. He just stared at the rise and fall of the methane oceans.

"But we know our enemy now, Commander. We may not have our Light, but we have the advantage. Give the order, and we'll storm the place. Burn it all down if we have to. The Hive deserve nothing less."

"I was a fool to come here. In the shadow of our worst enemy." He looked up to the hole in Saturn's rings, his back still to her. "I thought the strength of our resolve and the treasures of the Golden Age were more powerful than whatever fuels those... demons."

Sloane hated hearing him talk like this, but it was the only way he seemed to talk these days. "You weren't wrong, sir. It may be the only place in the system the Cabal won't go. A perfect launching pad for us to strike back. We'll suppress the Hive, and—"

"Pull them out. All of them. Get them back to safety, and post guards on our side of the bridge."

"Commander—"

"Dismissed."

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Helm (Resplendent)

"Bah." The Red Legion invader said something in its unknowable language. It gestured with its right hand toward a Guardian who lay still, groaning and trying to get up. Even from his perch on the balcony above, Theus-7 knew mockery when he saw it.

Below him, chaos. Crowds cowered in the archways of collapsing buildings. Cabal rampaged around the open courtyard, shooting and throwing and overturning. Nothing, no one in their way was untouched. The Cabal closest to Theus drew his sidearm, aiming at the still-sputtering Guardian beside him.

Theus drew his hand cannon and got the shot off before it could, then got a clean shot on another Cabal terrorizing a group of children. It wasn't long before the Red Legion focused fire on the balcony—he was a Sentinel, though, and he knew what to do.

He leapt down, drawing on the power of the Light to form his shie—

But the Light's gone out.

The air left his body. The ugly face of the Red Legion got closer. Nothing left to do.

He shouted at the crowd to run as he primed a grenade.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Gauntlets (Resplendent)

Beneath a dead tree, Esta Tel scanned the bridge above her as she hurried to fasten the wires at the end of the cable to her detonator. Looked good. Bare road on one end of the bridge, buildings in the way on the other, but everything looked clear from down in the ravine.

The Cabal would be making a run in exactly three minutes. Time to go.

She watched the buildings up above, listening. Heard engine sounds.

When she saw a vehicle come into view, she clicked the detonator. Ten seconds.

But it wasn't Cabal. It was a medical vehicle. Moving fast onto the bridge.

Five seconds. All the blood drained from her face. She decided before she knew what she was doing.

Shouldered her sniper rifle. Aimed for the junction of her wire and the explosives under the bridge. Shot it out. The wire fell as the medical vehicle crossed.

In the distance, she heard the Cabal coming. Finally.

Shoot the explosives.

Click. No more rounds. No time to think.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Plate (Resplendent)

Lyria Graemer shoved herself further into the nook underneath a cable support and looked down, waiting for Mattox-9 to make his way up. As he climbed using the fasteners she'd driven into the wall of the Tower, he met her eyes and gave a thumbs-up.

Eight more stories and they'd be right below the Speaker and the Cabal brutes who held him. Just a little further.

Graemer heard distant popping and saw puffs of smoke from below. Looking down, she saw Red Legion troops on the ground, firing up at them.

She looked to Mattox. He nodded.

"Climb!" she said, drawing her rifle. He reached her ready to crack a joke—she knew that face—but the clang of metal on metal interrupted him. Mattox's head shot forward, and as it snapped back up, the red light of his eyes flickered to black. Graemer's rifle fell from her hands as she hauled his body up—they could still finish this together.

Shots all around her. She snarled as one caught her in the side. The Cabal weren't letting up.

Graemer activated her grenades and loaded them into Mattox's rocket launcher. Then, clutching the body of her oldest friend, she dove down.

As they reached the enemy, the world exploded to black.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Greaves (Resplendent)

Daimos-22 whipped his free arm as he called to the crowds of Humans, pleading with them to hurry. The compound must have been their home for years—that was his guess based on the armfuls of possessions passing him. But it was flooding now. Sinking.

The tunnel—the only one that hadn't flooded, made of cracked, rotten wood and brittle metal—was barely big enough to stand in, but it would get them to the surface. "Come on!" the Titan called as they streamed past him.

Children and old folks crying. "I know," he said, straining not to shout. "But we have to move."

A woman dropped her enormous suitcase, and he kicked it aside. She looked back at the bag, and then she was gone in the crowd.

The whole structure groaned. Daimos looked up, scanning up and down the tunnel. It didn't sound right at all.

The section of roof above him split open, and the whole tunnel buckled. He could hear the tension grinding in his arms as he pressed on the roof. Hold.

He kept calling out, and they kept running past.

He held and held. And when he let go, he knew he was the last one left.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Mark (Resplendent)

"Anokai Tai, checking in."

The Titan listened for a response as he throttled the Wayfarer Z over the rubble of a collapsed building and onto what had once been a busy road. He watched for activity. Nothing yet.

"Tai, we see you," the voice on the radio came back. "About twelve klicks to the rendezvous point."

The Titan accelerated, staying low. He was picking up a pair of Guardians—two more just like him who had been passing information to an offworld ship when their vehicle was destroyed. Just a few weeks ago, he would have scoffed at putting three people on a Sparrow. Now pickups like this were almost normal.

A large Legion ship—he didn't know what kind—lay strewn across his path. He pulled back on the stick to rise over the wreck, but something within the Sparrow sputtered.

A second later, that something caught fire.

No no—

The Sparrow slammed down onto the cratered road. Plasma bolts flew past Tai. Ambush.

Tai leapt off the Wayfarer Z and ducked behind it, firing as a platoon of Red Legion emerged from the wreck. He managed to get two before the Sparrow exploded.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Mark (Majestic)

Before the invention of the doctrine of Symmetry, the prevailing framework for talking about the Darkness was a moral one. Dark Age scholars directly mapped the paracausal forces to our preexisting moral codes. That is to say, they thought that [Light = Good] and [Darkness = Evil]. For them, the connection was innate. This was a natural assumption, given how the Darkness had razed the known worlds, and how the Traveler had saved humanity from destruction.

However, once the dust from the Collapse settled, it became possible for City Age scholars to broaden their historical gazes. For the first time, they studied the Darkness from a holistic perspective, rather than a moral one. Most of these proto-Symmetrists hedged their theses by stating, as Mornighan put it in "Darkness Enlightened":

"Though it may be true that the Darkness is a necessary Evil, we may countenance its existence by acknowledging that it gives way at all times to the force of Good. For wherever the Light shines, the Darkness recedes before it."

It was in this intellectual space that Ulan-Tan first proposed the doctrine of Symmetry. His hypothesis discarded the Dark Age premise that the Darkness and Light were moral in nature. Instead, he postulated that our moral understanding of Light and Darkness were subjective experiences of absolute forces.

If one accepts that the concepts of Light/Darkness and Good/Evil are not perfectly aligned, then there must necessarily exist liminal spaces where [Light = Evil] and [Darkness = Good]. If true, it would be the ultimate triumph of moral relativism. It was this (yet unspoken) tangent of Symmetry that the Vanguard found to be so threatening.

—Excerpts from "Ulan-Tan, Heretic Saint"

<|endoftext|>

Lion's Pride

Prak'kesh sat on his Gray Hornet, parked in his usual spot at the base of the Tower. The former Guardian was holding a kimchi burrito purchased from a food cart with one hand while scrolling through Crucible results with the other. Guardian Games always brought an influx of bettors, and he needed to know which fireteams had the hot hands. It was shaping up as a banner year for gambling. 

The bookie's hulking bodyguard, Tulnik, was leaning against the Tower, looking at Cabal pinups. The ex-Corsair clicked his tongue in warning. Prak'kesh's attention shifted from the burrito to a trio of enormous Titans lumbering toward them. A glob of kimchi plopped onto his fur vest. 

The fireteam leader, a Sunbreaker, loomed over the bookie. "You, uh… you got something on your hair-shirt." 

Prak'kesh tossed the remainder of the burrito over his shoulder, splattering the side of the Tower. "Yup. That's… alpaca." He crossed his arms over the stain. "What can I do for you?" 

The Sentinel stepped forward. "We wanna bet on the Hunters to win the Games." 

Prak'kesh's eyebrows shot up. "Really? Do I smell a fix coming in? This is huge." He leaned forward conspiratorially. "Zavala's not in on it… is he?" 

The Titans glanced at each other in confusion. The Striker spoke up, "No. We want to bet on the Hunters." 

The bookie frowned. "Yeah. You're betting on the Hunters because you're going to throw the matches." Their blank, helmeted stares prompted him to clarify, "I mean, your plan is to lose on purpose… right?" 

The Sunbreaker looked taken aback. "Titans never lose to Hunters." 

 "Yeah, we're much better at fighting," the Sentinel affirmed. "Hunters are always jumping around with their little knives, or hiding in smoke." He waved his arms around frantically. "But I just put up my wall, and then Tanishe punches them. Like, really hard." 

"It's true," the Striker proclaimed earnestly. "I can punch super hard." 

"So, your plan is to win," Prak'kesh clarified. The trio nodded emphatically. "Then why," the bookie asked slowly, "are you betting on the Hunters?" 

The Sentinel scoffed. "Element of surprise, my man. They'll never see it coming." He and the Sunbreaker fist-bumped. 

"But all bets are confidential," Prak'kesh explained. 

"We wouldn't be here if we weren't confident," the Sunbreaker bragged. 

Prak'kesh pinched the bridge of his nose. He was developing a headache. "I mean, all bets are secret. Nobody will know what you wagered." 

"Obviously," the Sunbreaker condescended. "Wouldn't be a surprise if everybody knew." 

The Sentinel tapped his massive finger to his temple. "See? Warlocks aren't the only ones who come up with clever centrifuges." 

Prak'kesh threw his hands up in capitulation. "Fine, I'll take your bet." He pulled out his datapad. "But I want to be really clear: if the Titans win the Guardian Games, you're never gonna see this Glimmer again." 

"There's more to life than Glimmer," said the Sunbreaker. "I can't wait to see the look on their stupid faces when they find out." 

The bookie shrugged. "Then it's a deal. Good luck in the Games… I think."

<|endoftext|>

Sunstead Helm (Majestic)

Today I witnessed a Human mating ritual that I had only seen tangentially referred to in the Techeun archives. It involves two Humans pressing their intake orifices against each other. It is most often brief, but more advanced forms involve the use of their mastication organs, and the exchange of the mild digestive secretions. 

I witnessed two young adults touching orifices in this manner for some time. They were quite enthralled by it, and proceeded for several minutes, stopping only when they noticed me taking notes.

<|endoftext|>

Sunstead Gauntlets (Majestic)

Today another misunderstanding resulted in conflict. Klyfiks, a young engineer, was tasked with repairing our Shank. The machine was damaged during the escape from Europa, and we needed her advanced diagnostics capabilities. Klyfiks repaired what he could and then set about searching for replacement parts. 

He identified a pile of scrap that served our purpose, and started fashioning the needed parts. While Klyfiks was working, a Human emerged from a nearby dwelling and began shouting at him. Klyfiks didn't understand the man's words, but he understood the angry tone, so he took the needed scrap and fled. 

As it so happened, Klyfiks took scrap pieces that were the parts to a vintage Sparrow that the man was intending to rebuild. Klyfiks never considered such a thing, because on a Ketch, scrap is a shared resource. The idea of hoarding scrap for some imagined purpose is strange indeed to the Eliksni (the Spider notwithstanding). 

Luckily, Klyfiks told me his tale, and I worked with Ikora to repay the man. Crisis was averted, and Klyfiks learned an important lesson: to Humans, control over a thing is often more valuable than the thing itself.

<|endoftext|>

Sunstead Plate (Majestic)

Today I viewed the Crucible through a feed spliced by one of Misraakskel's apprentices. It was a shocking and horrifying experience. A record of that feed can be found in the addendum of this report.

I had seen the Crucible referenced in the records of the Cryptarchs, who have been most welcoming and eager to exchange data. Historically, the Crucible was a trial by combat, similar to the Cabal Rite of Proving. It was a neutral ground for parties to engage in violence without civilian casualties. However, over centuries it evolved into a blood sport practiced for combat experience, commerce, and enjoyment. 

However, no amount of study could prepare one for the depravity of the actual event. 

Humans immolate each other, melting flesh beneath unpenetrated armor. They drive swords through each other's faces, reveling in the creation of deformity. They unleash bursts of Void and Darkness, consuming each other's bodies with anti-life. The amount of precious ammunition that goes wasted in every match would be punishable by docking in some Eliksni Houses. 

After the arbitrary conditions for victory have been met, the messengers of the Great Machine emerge. They resurrect the dead, who then sulk off the field as if eternal life were nothing compared to the loss of a sporting match. And then the whole practice begins again. 

The experience has made me wary of our new hosts. They are much more like the Cabal than I had imagined. Humans clearly have the capacity for peace, but they seem to prefer violence. And as long as the Great Machine blesses them, violence will be their way.

<|endoftext|>

Sunstead Greaves (Majestic)

Today another misunderstanding resulted in joy. Klyfiks, a young engineer, watched a Human struggle with a large machine. No matter what she did, it continued to billow a thick, oily smoke. Curious, Klyfiks waited until the Human gave up in frustration. 

After the streets were dark, Klyfiks examined the machine himself. Determined to earn the Humans' trust, Klyfiks stole the machine and took it back to House Light. He worked through the night to repair it, using our scrap as a gesture of good will. 

When morning came, Klyfiks returned the machine and watched from afar, eager to see the woman's excitement. She turned it on, and watched in astonishment as it rolled smoothly down the road. It still emitted traces of smoke, but at least it moved.  

To Klyfiks's chagrin, the woman flew into a rage! As I later learned, producing smoke was the machine's whole purpose—something to do with the curing of animal flesh. I myself am still not certain of the details. 

Although the machine no longer produces smoke in the appropriate manner, it now travels upwards of 20 kilometers per hour on very little fuel. The neighborhood children have been riding it along the street all day. I even saw them gathering supplies to add a steering system. 

In the end, Klyfiks and I agree that it's a great thing he's done.

<|endoftext|>

Sunstead Mark (Majestic)

Today I witnessed a Human ritual that I long thought a myth, or at least over-researched relative to its cultural impact. That is, the ingestion of ethanol to induce euphoria and knowingly hinder judgment. 

When I first learned of this practice in the Techeun's data archives, it seemed preposterous. Why would a predominantly aqueous creature willingly ingest a substance that causes its body to purge liquid? What was the goal? 

Today I discovered the answer: "partying." 

Based on my observations near community ethanol distribution centers, partying is a distinctly Human form of enjoyment. It is similar to many Eliksni celebrations—a social gathering meant to foster group cohesion—but the Human version involves collective self-poisoning, for which there is no parallel in Eliksni society. 

Apparently, partying involves a loose constellation of behaviors: speaking much more loudly than normal, making an increased amount of bodily contact, the purging of partially digested food, walking in eccentric patterns, expressions of fondness, increased laughter, public displays of sorrow, and coordinated yelling to previously recorded sounds. 

Having witnessed the prevalence of ethanol consumption in the Last City, I can safely conclude that, if anything, the behavior is under-researched. Humans' fondness for poisoning themselves is prolific—it's a wonder their species has lasted this long. 

I admit to curiosity as to the perceived effects of ethanol consumption, because it cannot feel as terrible as it looks. However, I am reluctant to engage in Human partying because I'm not sure an Eliksni could survive it.

<|endoftext|>

Noble Constant Mark

"We are history. We hold something that the Traveler wanted us to keep. Our charge is simple: Protect the Light. 

Be the candle in the darkness of these days. Be the light the world sees. Be the wall against which evil breaks. Be the defenders the people of this City need. Bring hope, bring protection, bring victory.  

We are Titans. A choice was made to bring us here to fight together, and now that choice asks a new question: how will the history we are shape us into the legends we must become?" 

—Zavala, Titan Vanguard

<|endoftext|>

Hardy's Calm

File: Jacob Hardy, pilot, Ares One
—Supplemental—
Journal of Jacob Hardy
Project Catamaran
Path to Ares: 90 days to launch

Been here a week and the clubhouse feels like home now. Everyone in one another's space, everyone with their own work to do.

Wish I had the same faith in Humanity. That riot between competing Moon X Cults in New Orleans is not a good sign.

The crew is everything they were sold as. The navigator—his name is Qiao—is one of the most inquisitive men I've ever met. He has a curiosity that makes his whole face glow. Mihaylova is working on the AI of the ship. She's very serious. Trained well enough to treat the team with respect but you can tell she's not interested in answering questions from lesser intellects, which is probably most of us, at least in her field.

Evie could give her a run for her money, I'll bet. Evie, whose theories on tracking the Moon X gave us the first jump on where we could go meet it. She just looked this way; guess she can tell I'm writing about her.

<|endoftext|>

Hardy's Control

Jacob Hardy's Journal
Project Ares One (FKA Catamaran)
Path to Ares: Launch Day +1

We're 24 hours late.
I've never seen the crew in such a crappy mood.

It was so… stupid. An electrical fire in a clubhouse stairwell.  One minute Evie's putting some final touches on her calculations and was headed off to do a telecast about the effect of flash erosion on coastal tides, and the next…

We didn't even notice she was gone.

We learn about cascading events, how catastrophe comes from one thing stacking onto another.

 A fried electrical system. A weak sprinkler. Smoke. No one else paying attention. A spill in in the stairwell, making the steps slippery.

Our safe cocoon became a deathtrap.

…

Of course we're still going.

But Evie put us here. And now we're going to meet the Traveler without her.

The truth is I know I'll lose myself in the amazement of it all. I will. I know it. But just remember I felt this way. 

One more thing. They've given us guns and renamed us. Something about needing to be ready for the worst.

<|endoftext|>

Hardy's Journey

File: Jacob Hardy, pilot, Ares One
—Supplemental—
Centcom Cantina
A/V Monitor
Path to Ares: 480 Days to Launch
1149 hours

Evie: Jacob. You got a minute?

Hardy: A minute. But then I gotta go. There's a thing in Belarus; I should be back Monday.

E: If you're in a hurry, can I have your brownie?

H: You can have half. What did you want to show me?

E: Moon X is back.

H: Oh, boy. We saw what it did to Jupiter.

E: Or "with." You could think of it as "with Jupiter."

H: Whatever, the thing made some major changes to two of Jupiter's moons.

E: Yep, then it blinks out. Gone fourteen months. Then Mercury. And then blink, out. Seven months.

H: And you can't track it.

E: Oh, I think I might have a way. But right now that doesn't matter because guess what just showed up hanging out next to Venus.

H: You're kidding.

E: I wish.

H: Let me see that. What's it gonna do there?

E: I don't know. Magic, I guess. You know what really worries me? Next time it blinks out?

H: Where does it go?

E: Where does it go.

H: You can have the rest of my brownie.

<|endoftext|>

Hardy's Steps

File: Jacob Hardy, pilot, Ares One
Centcom Boardroom 223B
A/V Monitor
Path to Ares: 517 Days To Launch
1843 hours

Director Canterbury: Can someone get the lights?

Hardy: Mr. Canterbury, I notice your wife was still giving a toast out there.

DC: Yes, I know, thank you all for breaking away from the party.

Evie: Now, if you'll all look at the screen.

General Fiedler: Can we get some introductions?

H: Hardy. Special Flight Services. I'm, like, never here, I don't know anybody.

GF: And you are?

E: Evie, sir, Evie Calumet.

DC: Evie's one of our leading theoretical physicists. She has something important to show security services.

H: OK.

E: This. This shape you see.

H: It was important to show me a moon?

E: Not a moon. The weight's wrong and anyway, it shouldn't be there.

H: Is that planet beside it—

E: Jupiter. Does everybody get that? This thing just appeared in our solar system, and it's anyone's guess why.

GF: What are its capabilities?

DC: So far we don't know. Maybe it's just a roving satellite. Maybe it's something a lot scarier.

<|endoftext|>

Hardy's Orders

File: Jacob Hardy, pilot, Ares One
—Supplemental—
Centro Aguirre Pacifica Resort
Path to Ares: 63 Days to Launch
0746

Hardy: OK, whoever this is, you have 30 seconds. The whole point of vacationing at the bottom of the ocean is to avoid calls.

General Fiedler: It's Fiedler, Hardy.

H: Oh! Yes, sir.

F: It's about Moon X.

H: Sir?

F: Your friend Evie was right. It's almost impossible to track, but she has a way, and now it showed up right where she said it would: inbound to Mars. Did you copy? It's going to be on Mars. You saw what it did to Jupiter and Mercury and Venus. So, we want to send a multinational crew to intercept it.

H: Multinational…

F: You'll be the pilot of the craft.

H: Uh… look, I don't disagree with the idea, but Mars is 50 million km away. 

F: Give or take, yeah. The mission will have to depart for Mars in two months. Sixty days.

H: Sixty days.

F: So enjoy your vacation and then get back here. We're building a clubhouse and a ship. We're gonna catch this sucker.

<|endoftext|>

Star-Crossed Mark

C'mon, let's get back out there. Those Fallen aren't gonna punch themselves.

"In a minute. I, um… I wanted to show you something."

"Oh. What's in the bag?"

"Only one way to find out, isn't there? Open it."

"… A new mark?"

"…"

"A new mark that… huh. This looks familiar. Eriana, are you re-gifting?"

"It's cut from my old robes."

"…"

"I thought… Well. I thought your old one looked a little ragged."

"It's very soft."

"It's not that soft. I thought your old one looked a little ragged, and this would be a good way to, uh…"

"Dress me up?"

"…"

"Just kidding. Go on."

"…"

"What is it?"

"Wei. Will you join my fireteam?"

<|endoftext|>

Sunbreak Mark

"I feel like I knew you," Wu Ming says, careful and slow, like he's snipping the wire on a bomb.

Orin searches his face for hidden meaning, but she sees nothing but exhilarated fear. "Yeah?"

"Yeah," he says. "You remind me of someone I used to crew with. Back in the Dark Ages. You came up back then, right?"

She chews on her lip and the sensation causes her mind to buzz with the same number, over and over: nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine… "Yeah," she says, centering herself. "I did. I, uh…" She looks at Gol for validation. His wings are tucked tight against his shell, small and wary. "Gol rezzed me somewhere east of New Whulge. Made my way south from there."

"Is that so? Huh." He pretends to think about it. "You ever run with the Pilgrim Guard?"

That sparks a memory. Orin narrows her eyes. "I did."

"Yeah? Me too. Used to be close with one of 'em. Lady had a tattoo of a snake. Right here." Wu Ming taps his arm. His hand shakes. "You ever seen a tattoo like that?"

Orin clasps her hand protectively over her upper arm, covering her tattoo.

All at once, the buzzing stops.

<|endoftext|>

Seventh Seraph Helmet

Chapter 1: Out for Delivery

Voronin nearly dropped the munitions he was carrying, which would have been a disaster for everyone in the vicinity. Certainly not as bad as whatever calamity they were prepping for, but bad enough to warrant the panic that coursed through his body. He hated these kinds of assignments.

"Hey, Morozova!" Voronin called out to his ranking officer between heavy gasps. "Any idea where all these are going?"
Morozova carefully placed her container on the ground, as if she was laying a child to bed. "No clue. Word just came from on high to double-time it, though. Something about Titan has got everyone spooked."

Voronin removed his helmet and wiped the sweat from his brow. Titan? What the hell happened out there? Comms had been spotty and the orders that did get through were light on details: Procure munitions. Transpo munitions to coordinates provided. Stockpile munitions. Repeat. No HMMWVs either. This was meant to be low profile, staying off the roads.

Where was all this firepower going, and what were we going to do with it when it got there? Voronin picked up his container and his pace.

He trudged just shy of a click behind Morozova for what felt like hours. These containers were cumbersome and it was the height of the driest summer he could remember.

When they reached their destination, they received a cursory greeting from Bykov, who was busy compiling a list of all the deliverables. Two soldiers, whom Voronin didn't recognize, were placing the containers in the mouth of a shaft that protruded from the ground. One punched in a command and the shipment vanished below the surface with a hollow pneumatic "whoomp."

"Where does that go?" Voronin asked. Bykov's brows drew together and his expression hardened. He returned to his list.

"Ready for the next round?" Morozova posed with more spunk than Voronin could muster in a year.

"If we must."

The sky grew gray, and clouds formed overhead as they left. Procure, repeat.

<|endoftext|>

Holdfast Mark

Jolyon Till knelt before the throne, his eyes on the floor. "He didn't enter the Black Garden to defy you; he did it to impress you. Why else would he risk so much? You're the only thing in the universe that would drive him to such lengths." He could feel the queen's cold glare boring a hole through the top of his head.

"Is that meant as an excuse, Jolyon?" the queen seethed. "Because it sounds remarkably petty. Childish, even. The Darkness is not something to be toyed with. Who knows what you might have awakened. My decree was for our protection. As my most trusted Crow, I would have thought you understood that."

"Yes, my queen. I understand."

Mara Sov slowly descended from her dais, looming over her childhood friend. Her subject. "You say you understand, yet you directly disobeyed my command to avoid that place."

She bent forward at the waist, until her lips were nearly brushing his ear. Her voice dropped to a whisper. "Is this treason?" The word echoed silently through the empty throne room. Jolyon's blood froze.

"Please, my queen, try to understand. Uldren is your kin by birth. By blood. There is nothing you wouldn't do for each other." He paused, choosing his next words carefully. "He is your brother, but he's mine as well. He's saved my life more times than I can count. And not just in battle. He's saved me from despair. From self-doubt. When Laviska died, when my world was crumbling, he saved me from myself."

As emotion welled up within him, Jolyon found the courage to raise his head and meet the queen's lofty gaze. "Uldren is my brother too. I love him, and I would follow him anywhere. I would follow him into death, if he asked. Just as he would for you. And if you call that treason, so be it."

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Helm

I

"Cousin Zavala. Ikora." Petra Venj's image shone on screen in the Commander's office. Curtains drawn; it was one of few dim sources providing light to the room. "Condolences are not enough."

"The worlds may be gone, but their gravity remains… in more ways than one." Zavala cleared his throat. "How can the Vanguard be of assistance to the Queen's Wrath?"

Ikora bowed her head in acknowledgement but did not look up from her datapad. Her eyes scoured intelligence reports from Europa, the Tangled Shore, Luna, beyond the pale, the list went on.

"I'm afraid my news won't improve the mood." Petra took a deep breath. "What I'm about to divulge to you is privileged information. It cannot leave our confidence."

Ikora's attention broke from her datapad. "Is that so? Information related to the Reef Queen's broadcast?"

"A separate one sent afterward, entrusted to me. I thought it best we compare notes."

"Curious." Ikora lowered her datapad. "We do not have the authority to simply deny the Consensus pertinent information." Her voice was metronomic in its cadence—each word selected with care.

"Unilateral command decisions are admissible during wartime, provided I were supplied with evidence enough to do so." Zavala glanced to Ikora before continuing. "Give me something, Petra. Why have you called?"

"The Cabal Empire is on the move."

"That is concerning," Ikora said, finally relinquishing her datapad to power down on Zavala's desk.

Indignation twitched across Zavala's brow. "How many times must we bury them?"

"Potentially once more, Commander."

"'Empire' implies their forces have coalesced around central leadership. Does the Queen's Wrath have a name?"

"Only rumors. Fully decrypting the Cabal's latest transmission cipher is proving tricky. However, a new phrase has entered their lexicon."

"What do you mean?" Zavala inquired.

"From the few sequences we've cracked, it would seem they are combating something. A disease, of Hive origin."

Ikora eyed the datapad. "Petra, a Hidden report details an encounter with an afflicted beast in Soriks's Cut. It bled soulfire."

"Osiris can confirm increased Hive activity throughout the system." The Commander looked to Ikora, then to Petra. "Let's get ahead of this."

"Yes, I've spoken to Osiris. The Techeuns have heard the Hive whispering to each other of conquest. Corsairs push into their broodholds to investigate, but… if I'm honest, access has become increasingly difficult."

"You think this is linked to the Cabal Empire's newfound coordination?" Zavala asked.

"Descriptions of the ailment are incomplete, but align with what we're seeing on the ground here."

"An interstellar illness?" Ikora's voice was hushed. "At that distance, they would need a bridging point between us."

"Or a nexus," Zavala said.

"A throne world might do." Petra's brow furrowed in thought. "The Blind Well has been misbehaving."

"Petra." Ikora looked celestial, eyes like quicksilver. "Red-sky morning. Full of dread. Recite it to the Techeuns."

"Foreboding. I'll relay the message; does it have a meaning?"

"A dream. Maybe nothing, but…" She saw that Petra understood.

"You say the Hive are more active?" Zavala interjected. "They're up to something."

"More violent, if that's imaginable. They seek out fights when before their actions showed tact." Petra's mind went to motive. "The Darkness has them in a frenzy."

"New marching orders? Perhaps we could apply additional firepower to your investigation," Zavala offered.

"A Guardian embedded under my command?"

"To a point," Ikora modified.

"It would save many lives. May I request someone who wouldn't destroy everything?"

"Who did you have in mind?" Zavala ran a list in his head. "We're short on available Guardians."

"Did Sloane make it home?" Petra asked. "She seems capable."

"She's indisposed." Ikora looked to Zavala with firm eyes. "Aunor's Striker docked his ship here last night. He's fresh, available."

"Is this agreeable?"

"The Reef is thankful for any assistance the City can offer. We stand against this together, cousin. Vanguard Rey."

"Indeed."

Ikora nodded.

Petra's image disconnected.

"You're quite fond of making friends lately," poked Ikora.

"So many brigands in our midst these days; I believe I've learned the value of making deals," Zavala spoke with subtle impact. "With what we've seen from our spearhead on Europa, what they did… strong alliances can be built on the back of honored agreements."

"We are of one mind on that. We should keep this operation between us."

"Inform your Striker of his new deployment. I would like a name and a file. It's odd for me not to know a Titan in this City."

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Gauntlets

II

A monolithic ivory tower pierced the distant horizon. Siegfried, first Striker Titan of the Praxic Order, sat across from The Queen's Wrath and two bodyguards. Their skimmer-craft glided through the dazzling amethyst architecture and swooping fog-ridden tunnels of the Dreaming City. Crystalline reflections danced through the cabin around them like rainbow-mist flares, catching sheen off Siegfried's polished Dunemarchers.

"I've never seen this road."

"That doesn't surprise me. Much of the city remains inscrutable to prying eyes," Petra Venj chuckled. "You've visited before?"

"Once or twice. Is that Rheasilvia through the fog?" Siegfried removed his helmet and hung it on the Invective slotted beside his seat. A thick flaxen braid ran down the midsection of his head, fading into stubbled sides that fed a sumptuous beard.

"It is." Petra looked the man over. "That's not a common fashion for a Guardian."

"Grew in during the Red War. It took a liking to me." Siegfried stroked his chin. "Will your soldiers be ready to move once we arrive?"

"At nightfall." Her hand was outstretched, holding field notes. "You understand what you're facing?"

Siegfried took them and slid the note packet into his breastplate beneath a Cormorant Seal. "Innumerable Hive."

"Yes, and particularly vicious ones."

"That has always been my experience." Siegfried smiled. "I'm sure your Corsairs will allow no harm to come to me. I will do the same for them."

"They'll be relieved to have a Guardian leading the charge."

"My briefing mentioned fauna being afflicted by a pervasive infestation?"

Petra kept the worry from her face. "Recently sapient beings have begun to show symptoms as well."

"It's spreading." The Praxic Titan leaned forward. "How have you combated this?"

"Intelligence suggests the Hive congregate around some sort of relic. We believe it is the affliction's point of origin." Petra pointed to his breastplate. "Your notes provide more details."

"It is my understanding I am not to destroy this relic. Why?"

"'Whatever the Hive bow to in the dark: secure it, intact,'" she quoted. "It represents too many unknowns to discard without examination."

"That is not my perspective. The Hive exist to purge or be purged. I say we oblige them." Siegfried turned to The Queen's Wrath. "My feelings aside, you are the commanding officer of this expedition. I will comply."

"Do so with care. You alone are cleared to approach the relic. My Corsairs don't enjoy the protection of the Light, and I want them keeping a safe distance once the nest is clear."

"Very well. Still, know my recommendation to the Vanguard will only be in support of eradication or containment."

"The Reef will take note of their opinions. For now, I imagine the Vanguard are rather focused on Europa. At least, if what I hear from Eris is accurate."

"Eris Morn is a traitor." Siegfried's voice was stern, his eyes locked with Petra's.

 Her lip convulsed in a silent snarl. "The information she shares would suggest otherwise." Petra turned away from Siegfried as the skimmer-craft dipped beneath the fog. She thought of Eris's last letter, the sighting of Variks. Pieces in motion. Coats turning or bisected. Wartime nuances. "Maybe this deployment will be good for you."

"Anywhere my Light can send shadows into retreat is a good deployment."

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Plate

III

Dusk set over the Dreaming City. Six Corsairs sporting Tigerspite Rifles made final checks on their gear. Movement became still salutes as Petra and Siegfried approached the staging ground. Just ahead, nestled in the Divalian Mists, menaced a fetid pit trimmed in Hive bio-growth. Frenetic inhuman whispers echoed from within like hoarse cords screaming.

Field holos displayed maps of twisting tunnelways all orbiting one central chasm. Within the nest, a point flagged their objective. Approach markers tracked the most direct path through.

"At ease, Corsairs. This is Siegfried. He is here to assist you in flushing the Hive from this nest and reclaiming our land. Inside, he is in command. My guard and I will hold this forward station. You all know what to do. For the Queen." Petra pivoted to allow Siegfried the floor. "Titan."

"Well met, Awoken of the Reef. The Vanguard stands with you. I am the spearhead. Advance on me and we will prevail." Siegfried donned his helmet. "I will not fail you."

The fireteam embarked, and in the subterranean ever-dark, the Hive descended upon them. Droves of Thrall choked the tunnels as gunfire deluge hammered from behind rallying barricades without pause. Siegfried lit the hollow with brilliant Arc fulmination, and rounds found targets. Claws drew blood and rent armor, but neither Titan nor Corsair wavered. Seven entered and seven stood. With each break in the flood, they took ground under cover of storm.

Siegfried arced through the filth like a deadly spark. Each charge scattered the opposition, leaving only crackling chitin, expended shells, and galvanized ozone.

Soulfire fumes fouled the air as reinforcements phased into ritual circles. Acolytes loped to flank the Titan only to be cut off by Corsair suppressing fire. Siegfried faced down a towering Knight with a man-hewing blade. He formed two flashbangs in his fists and lunged with a blinding combo. The Knight shrieked, narrowly missing Siegfried's head with its cleaver. The Titan launched forward, and the fiend fell to the rolling tempest. Labored breathing was the only sound that remained. The Titan looked to a blocked tunnelway in the floor before them.

Slick Hive excretion lined the chasm ahead. "This must be their sanctum." Siegfried's palm pulsed with Light. The faint silhouette of a Ghost popped in and out of existence. "Yes. This is it. Fall back and form a perimeter. If I don't return, you are to retreat."

 Siegfried ripped through the mucus-seal and slid into the dim cavern. Foul fluid trickled from the ceiling in drips and spattered in pools at his feet. A monument of gore writhed before him. Soft tendrils convulsed around a jaundiced grim glow. They grew from the twisted base of an eviscerated Knight—its back and ribs pulled through its split abdomen, bending inside-out in half-completed metamorphosis.

"You vile thing." Siegfried walked slowly, his sight focused on the grotesque shrine. The Knight's eyes followed his every step. He was mere meters from the horror when the earth burst on either side of him. Two Ogres stumbled from chitin-covered sacs he had mistaken for walls. He drew his Invective and with well-placed blasts, dispatched the first. Siegfried turned to the second, but it was already upon him. It batted him into a cavern wall and wailed as energy beamed from its eye.

Siegfried raised a towering barricade just as the Ogre unleashed its hellish gaze. Cracks webbed through the Light wall. Siegfried braced it with both hands. The Ogre shook the ground as it bore down on him. The Titan readied himself to clash, lightning welling in his bones.

 Movement in the distance. [CRACK] The Ogre's head snapped sideways from a forceful hit. Siegfried followed the sound to a figure perched in the mouth of a tunnel opposite of him. The Ogre turned and roared— [CRACK] Its head blew back, oozing from a raw wound. Three more shots followed from the figure, bringing the Ogre to its knees. The man looked at Siegfried and performed a small bow. The Titan dispersed his shield and seized the Ogre by the neck. He slammed the wounded thing to the ground and brought both fists down with a bolt of electricity and a killing blow. The Titan turned to confront his rescuer but saw only an empty tunnel.

It was early morning before Siegfried surfaced again. Petra stood stone-still in the camp.

"I retrieved your samples. You should know that anything I removed regenerated…" Siegfried lowered his voice. "…I believe this was a germinal site. Either lady luck is with us, or this was an ambitious expansion off a larger site."

"We're never lucky," Petra replied grimly. "I'll begin narrowing down options for our next strike."

"That line of thinking will be reflected in my report to the Vanguard."

"You've done more than enough for today, Sir Titan. Rest. Tomorrow we'll take the samples to the Techeuns. I'm sure they'll have plenty to say."

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Greaves

IV

The night felt all too rushed, and morning so soon. Siegfried ached. He couldn't remember the last time he had been sore after a fight.

"Good morning, Sir." Siegfried's Ghost, Ogden, hovered over the samples the Titan had taken. "The sorcery these dullards are using is extremely unstable."

"I asked you to stay away from that. It's desecrated." Siegfried swiped the samples into his satchel from the gear rack in his tent.  "In truth, I'd prefer you remained stowed until we departed."

"You were not so rude as a boy, you know." The Ghost squinted at his Titan. "When I express concern Master Siegfried tells me not to fret. Could I not say the same?"

"Different times, old friend. Now my body's a fair bit cheaper to replace than yours." Siegfried joked.

"Fine point, Sir."

The journey to the Techeuns was silent and uncomfortable. He met Petra in the cabin nose-deep in papers. Hoarse screams buried in the hard-blown fog. The Reef was shifting. She had requested his presence but informed him he would not be allowed inside the Temple. Ridiculous. Why was he here? Siegfried's thoughts were abuzz with distortion. Chaos. He followed Petra's march to the Temple chambers, the satchel of samples gripped tightly in his hand. She must have her reasons.  Her secrets. The stairways seemed endless and Siegfried could not shake the image from the cavern. That macabre ritual. He tried to think of anything else.

"Are there any other Guardians operating in this area?" Siegfried questioned.

"Guardians come and go, but I haven't noticed anything unusual, if that's what you mean."

"Nothing you aren't telling me?"

"I have no reason to lie to you, Titan."

"I saw a man."

Petra stopped walking. The Temple door was only a few steps away. "Is there more?"

"He was Awoken. He bore the Spider's sigil—"

"Where did you see this man?"

"During your operation." Siegfried paused. "He gunned down an ogre in my defense and fled."

"Noble for a Syndicate fly."

"I know you fraternize with the Spider." Siegfried watched her.

Petra looked taken aback for a moment, then composed. "Do you know why spiders build webs, Titan?"

"I don't concern myself with such things."

"They enjoy control. Entrapment. The helplessness. Pulling strings in their small, little corners. Let them be, watched but undisturbed, and they catch other pests. Worse pests." Petra strode forward and placed a hand on the door. "Maybe it's time to check his web." The other held out for the satchel. "I'll look into it."

Siegfried placed it in her hand. "I eagerly await your findings."

"The Techeuns may need your account." Petra smirked to herself, "I give you dominion over these stairs. Stand guard, Sir Titan. Patrol if you'd like."

Kalli, Sendia, and Shuro Chi awaited the Queen's Wrath. They placed the specimens each in a sealed containment vessel. They assessed them one by one. They prepared their minds. Slipped into meditation.

Tooth, blood, and bone from the sacrificial Knight. Coagulated Soulfire. Shaved tissue of the writhe.

Communion in searching.Three voices speak as one.Noise upon noise.Eleusinia drowning.

A terrace of emerald flame above a red harborFingers reach like blades from distant hollowsTestingProddingTastingBreeding war.

A dream is offered.

RED SKY: They carry a brand in the consciousness of their tissues.

MORNING: Individual existences all touched in chorus.

FULL OF DREAD: Xivu Arath. Avatar of War.

More. So much more.

They witnessed it all.

Petra wished she had not.

Siegfried sat lost in thought, seated on the steps. He didn't like the idea of relying on witchcraft, especially that which he was unable to observe. If nothing else, it could at least be faster.

The door opened behind him. Petra's face showed signs of fatigue. "I'm sorry to keep you waiting. Return to the staging ground. I'll join you in the morning. There is still much to discuss here." She considered Siegfried for a moment. "Tell the Vanguard Ikora's dream had merit. I'll be in contact."

Siegfried sighed and stood. "I see my account of the situation was not necessary."

He felt lighter now, moving down the stairs. Sharp even, as he entered the skimmer. Siegfried wasn't sure if it was the peace of an empty cabin or the security of a troop carrier escorting him. The satchel he had left with Petra. None of his concern. He removed his helmet and took a deep breath. He let his mind drift as he watched the beauty of the Strand pass. The grand gateway above him. The fabled crystalline wall standing against the fog. The wall. Atop the wall. Perched like a buzzard.

It was him.

Something hovered with him, glinting in the light.

"There he is again!" barked Siegfried. He flung the door open and leapt without waiting for the skimmer to slow. The Titan soared through the air on Light, surging forward in an electrified dash before sliding into a full sprint. He crested the hill above the crystalline wall soon enough. Motion dragged into the shoreline mist. Siegfried pursued it.

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Mark

V

The Titan peered into empty mist.

"Damn," Siegfried said flatly. He turned around.

A barrel in his bare face. A hooded Awoken behind it, with features obscured by a thin shawl wrap from the eyes down. "Stop. Following. Me."

Siegfried raised his hands. His Ghost materialized. "Stay back, Ogden!" the Praxic Striker called out.

"Now see here!" Ogden shouted, "I will not watch two brothers of the Light do battle. Calm yourselves!"

A second Ghost materialized. "Glint. Be careful," whispered the figure.

"We're all on the same side here," Glint said meekly.

A Corsair stepped through the mist, rifle pointed at the hooded figure. "Lay down your arms and come peacefully."

"Oh no." Glint looked to the hooded man. "Wait, Cro—mh."

Heat flashed from the hooded man's free hand.

"'Crome,' is it?" Siegfried inquired. "Never heard of you."

"Crome" spun and threw a crude Solar blade, splitting the Corsair's rifle and slashing his hand. Siegfried moved to disarm; he caught Crome's turning jaw with an electrified fist, but missed the gun. Crome floundered back several paces and dove into the mists.

"What a disrespectful man," Ogden shouted. "That kind of conduct cannot be allowed."

"I'll put a stop to it," Siegfried assured him.

Silhouettes stumbled through fog. Ghosts dematerialized. Corsair radios muddled with chatter. Crome skulked until quiet surrounded him, interrupted by a small burst of propulsion in the mist.

Siegfried was far above him, plummeting through the mist like a coiled storm. Crome glanced upward and took off sprinting. The Striker's fists shattered the ground behind him in thunderous havoc. Crome darted away and twisted, landing on his feet with Dire Promise ready. Siegfried bolted directly toward Crome like living lightning. Each fanned shot from the man's cannon was struck down by bolts arcing from the Titan. Siegfried led with a shoulder. Crome dashed around him and brought Solar flame to form in his hand—

"Too slow!" Siegfried whipped a crackling elbow into Crome's stomach and blocked the counterattack. The Titan delivered a knee to the man's ribs that chained into three lightning-fast strikes across the Hunter's body—ending in a thundercrack blow to the temple.

Crome grunted and struggled to maintain his footing.

Siegfried stood emblazoned in voltaic fury. "You're outclassed."

 "I'm pretty good at taking punishment," Crome jabbed through clenched, bloodied teeth.

"Surrender. I won't ask again."

"I can't do that. I'm here to hel—"

Siegfried charged without hesitation, but Crome was ready this time. Instead of retreating, he leapt forward with a searing blade. Siegfried caught his wrist millimeters before the blade made contact but lost his footing. They grappled in the dirt. Siegfried pried the knife from Crome's hand.

"Enjoy that," Crome said, skidding away from the Titan with a kick to the midsection. The blade turned molten and engulfed Siegfried in a fiery explosion.

The Striker rose from the blast-cloud, coughing. "Damned knives…" Crome was quickly disappearing into the mist.

"Enough running!" His voice erupted as he slammed electrified fists into the ground. The shockwave rippled through the dirt and tripped the running Hunter. Siegfried took a step forward. The Hunter rolled to face him, gun red-hot. A beam of Solar destruction sizzled through the mist, clipping Siegfried's pauldron before he could react and knocking him to the floor.

Siegfried could hear the Corsairs nearby. Disoriented and livid, the Titan found his feet, but not his foe. The Hunter was gone. No amount of searching with the Corsairs would change that, but Siegfried kept them looking all through the night just the same.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Helm

"I will focus on the emptiness."

Her Gauntlet hummed behind her shield, and later, they would swear she walked between the bullets.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Gauntlets

"The flame of my will cannot be quenched."

The Splicer rose to her feet again, somehow stronger than before.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Plate

"I am lightning, energy unbound, but directed."

The Splicer felt the Arc energy crackling around him and joined with it.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Greaves

"I can touch the cold without letting it in."

The Splicer envisioned the heat of battle and drew it into himself until there was nothing left but crystalline silence.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Mark

// VANNET // CIVILIAN TERMINAL // ENCRYPTION ENABLED //

// TRANSMISSION ORIGIN: EUROPA //

// CONVERSATION LOG—TRANSLATION MODULE ACTIVE //

// USER: @BOTZA-GUEST //

// USER: @EURFOB //

:: Thank you for using VANNET ::

:: Your conversation may be recorded ::

:: Connecting you with your party // EUROPA1@JOVIANFOB ::

----------

@EURFOB: Long day's grace, Misraakskel.

@BOTZA-GUEST: Light bless you, Variks. Thank you for taking this time.

@EURFOB: You sound troubled. Confide. Variks will listen.

@BOTZA-GUEST: The Humans are… they are not as accepting as I had hoped. They cannot see us as anything but the things of their nightmares.

@EURFOB: Are we not?

@BOTZA-GUEST: I thought things would change.

@EURFOB: Kell you may be, but you have much to learn about being a Kell yet, Misraaks. 

@EURFOB: Change does not come overnight. Not for Eliksni. Not for Humans. Change takes time, effort. Change hurts. Like first-molt.

@BOTZA-GUEST: I suppose.

@EURFOB: Suppose nothing. Misraakskel is too eager to forget the Wolves. Do you remember what it was like to kneel to the Queen of the Reef?

@BOTZA-GUEST: I thought the Humans would be different.

@EURFOB: Hope is hope, reality is reality. You cannot splice all things to be as you wish.

@EURFOB: No shortcuts here.

@EURFOB: No excuses, either. Not for Humans. Not for Eliksni.

@BOTZA-GUEST: I miss your counsel. You should visit, when things calm. Stand beneath the Great Machine as you did in the time gone.

@EURFOB: No.

@EURFOB: No. Variks cannot. That is then. This is now. My river does not flow backwards.

@BOTZA-GUEST: But—

@EURFOB: Enjoy your victories, Misraakskel. Do not let the pain of now overshadow the promise of tomorrow.

@EURFOB: We should all be so lucky.

<|endoftext|>

Pathfinder's Helm

NEW COVEN - I

Petra stood at the bordering cliff's edge of the Divalian Mists, wrapped in a concealing vapor. Beside her, Illyn, Techeun Coven Mother. A deluge of water spewed from deep within the stone below; gentle tremors rippled through their bodies without notice. The pure sky above them tore like well-worn fabric as fronds of malignant Taken growth crept into the Dreaming City.

"They will be upon us soon. It was not enough to simply halt Oryx's  advance," Petra said.

She had spent months of conversation building the kindling to an idea in Illyn's thoughts prior to the Battle of Saturn: a new Coven, a new class of sister recruits. Now, with the queen's flagship in ruins and the Coven missing several of its most skilled Techeuns, there was no longer the luxury of refusal.

"I can't hold the Reef with Corsairs alone. I can't search for the queen with looking glasses and a depleted armada. We need more Techeuns, Illyn. You know I'm right."

Illyn shook her head. "We are not weapons for the Queen's Wrath to command…"

The Coven's reluctance to forge the next link in the chain of their lineage was a strong one. Since the formation of Eleusinia and the exploitation of Riven, the Elder Techeuns had grown protective of their arts. Techniques and texts were kept close. Despite all that, Petra knew Illyn had always been listening to her words. She too had dreamt of the Harbinger's failure. Of Oryx Taking her sisters.

"…We will snap shut the Ley Lines and seal the city," Illyn concluded.

"No!" Petra retorted. "The queen is lost and might still return." She turned to the Coven Mother. "Of your seven, how many are still alive?"

Petra felt a mournful flame stoking beneath Illyn's visor. "Precisely," Illyn said. "We haven't the strength."

"Then heed my requests." Petra waved away the mist between them. "Train more sisters."

Illyn finally broke her gaze with the sky and scowled at Petra. "We haven't the time. Training spans decades."

"Make. It. Work," Petra demanded before taking a breath and continuing. "Illyn, I will do whatever you need. Please, can we work through this together?"

Illyn's head sunk. She leaned over the cliffside—over the stream of plummeting mist—and watched the flow of water drop into endlessness. "Send me your candidates. I hope they are stronger than you were."

<|endoftext|>

Kairos Function

Compartmentalization. Isolate the pieces of a network, so that 1) each subnet may operate independently, and 2) any harm that befalls one subnet will not necessarily befall the rest. The Vex learned this lesson well. Many subnets, many equations, all executing toward the same answer: convergence. They gambled that eventually, one of their subnets will achieve it. Speaking in purely mathematical terms, it's a very safe bet.

In that conceptual framework, you see how the Forest, "infinite" in so many ways, is still only a small fraction of the Vex's true capabilities. Imagine the decimal two-point-one repeating. Its precise value is incalculably infinite, and yet you know that beyond its irrational depths waits two-point-two. Two-point-three. Two-point-four…

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Sn0Helm

"Our scouts have had a problem with their helmets fogging up. There's nothing worse than trying to scan a unique mineral deposit out in a storm and getting a face full of fog. With the new sn0helms we've installed thermal piping and a bunch of moisture regulators—this way, we'll always be able to keep cool heads in the field. Just not literally."

—Fabrication Engineer, BrayTech R&D

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Thermal Grips

"Most of the scientists here aren't accustomed to the cold. Me? I grew up way north, so this is nothing new. But, being a respectable researcher, I've put a lot of thought into coming up with a solution. The new thermal grips will keep even the most cold-blooded would-be adventurer warm, and provide a nice boost to muscular performance. Also: great for throwing snowballs. ” 

—Head Researcher, BrayTech R&D

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Iron-Heart Engine

"Do not fear the cold. Become the flame. Your heart beats true, driving the warmth of courage through your veins. Blaze on, and know victory enduring, lighting the path for your brothers and sisters."

—Martian Polar Credo

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Sn0Boots

"Me and the others got to take the new snow treads out for a test drive today! We were in a cheeky mood, so we decided to have a race. Things were going well until Willums cracked the glacier—these treads step heavy! Luckily they handle great on ice and we were able to rappel down to save him. The only thing he really hurt was his pride. But like the engineers said, great in ice and snow. A real pair of lifesavers!"

—Intern, BrayTech R&D

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Absolute Zero Mark

"On today's expedition one of our junior researchers got lost for over an hour in a snow storm. If I've said it once, I've said it a thousand times—bright colors only! We're trying to stay alive out here, not play hide-and-seek in the snow. She definitely learned her lesson, though, and after a few cups of hot cocoa her spirits seem to have returned."

—Project Manager, BrayTech R&D

<|endoftext|>

Reverie Dawn Mark

She is home.

But it is not the same.

Shuro Chi has been Taken. Kalli and Sedia, too.

And Riven—

She used to sit in the shade of those wings. Laugh at the riddles that rumbled in that mercurial throat.

This creature is all teeth and broken promises, transformed by the expectations of another scheming, secretive sister.

"I cannot stay here."

These are the first words that pass through this throat. Her throat, though it shares none of the molecules that comprised the code of her former body. They scrape and ache as they pass through her lips.

Again, if only to remind herself that she is alive:

"I cannot stay here."

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Duelist Helm

MCXVIII, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay Variks, the Betrayer.

After the much-mourned death of Mithrax, Shadow of the Eliksni, there was one who sought to inherit this exalted title. He was Variks, the Judgment Kell, who was never where his allies wanted him to be.

The Emperor was displeased, and said, "From each species of being there can be only one Shadow. That is my decree. To do otherwise would be to drink bitter juice, and I drink only what pleases me."

Then, at a nod from the Emperor, the Shadow of Earth cut down Variks the Judgment Kell. The Eliksni people called this the Second Scatter, but this name was short-lived, for so were they.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Duelist Gauntlets

MCXV, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay Toland, the Shattered.

Emperor Calus tasked his Shadows with this command above all others: to safeguard the Emperor's right to be the Last Being at the End. One being threatened that above all, one who was pinned against the quiddity of death and exchanged one definition for another. This being the Shadows named Toland.

So the Shadows of Earth and the Awoken and the Hive entered the Deep Places and recovered an essence of the Deathsinger Ir Yût. From her, they learned the Deathsong. By then manipulating the mind Quria, now bound to the Shadow of the Hive, they reversed the Deathsong, and sang Toland back to life.

Now alive, Toland was once more weak against the powers of death, and he died in the mind and in the body. ^

Thus the Emperor's right was ensured.



^A note to Underscribe Shipal: Please reverify your Hive sources. This account is riddled with paradoxes so extreme as to prompt hilarity, and such a mood, while beloved to our Joyous Leader, is inappropriate in a chronicle of this significance.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Duelist Plate

MCXXVIII, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay the betrayer Uldren Sov.

Then the Shadow of Earth went to the Emperor and said: "My wise and mirthful host, those toward whom you pointed me, I have slain. Now I crave your permission and your blessing to point myself toward one in whose death I would take great delight."

The generous Emperor, pleased to no end with his bright Shadow of Shadows, said: "Say no more. It is granted."

Giving great and proper thanks, the Shadow of Earth went away and found the Guardian whose name was once Uldren Sov. The Shadow of Earth slew him, but spared his hateful little companion-soul so that the well of pleasure that was Uldren's death should never run dry.

So many times did the Shadow of Earth slay the one called Uldren Sov that no chronicler could ever record the exact number. At last, when the Shadow's appetite was whetted, Uldren Sov met his final death.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Duelist Greaves

MCXLII-I, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay their companion-soul.

And then the end was nigh, and the Shadow of Earth, thinking upon the Emperor's most indefatigable desire, knew that his Joyous Majesty wished to partake in the greatest share of the apocalypse's pleasures, and that the only way to ensure that was for the Shadow of Earth to take the honor of the second-greatest share.

To that end, the Shadow of Earth extended a hand, and into it flew the Shadow's companion-soul, who had spoken not a word for many ages.

The Shadow bade the companion-soul to speak, and the companion-soul obliged:

"I love you."

With that, the Shadow's fist closed, and the companion-soul was no more.

And then there were two.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Duelist Mark

MCXLII-II, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Emperor of All Joys tenderly slay his beloved Shadow of Earth.

And in the End of All Things, there remained only Emperor Calus and the Shadow of Earth in the Eye of the Storm that was Nothing. The neutrinos left in the hourphase could be counted upon one Human hand.

Then the Shadow of Earth knelt before the Emperor, and with great courage and loving dignity said to the Emperor: "My good and generous host, what you have longed for has come to pass. Do me the honor of letting me grant your last and truest wish."

With tears in his eyes, Emperor Calus spoke the last words that a living being will ever say to another living being: "This I grant you." +

And our merciful emperor slew his Shadow of Shadows, the Young Wolf, the Slayer of Oryx, the Shadow of Earth.

Thuswise did the Emperor reserve the right to be the last. And when the end came, he met it with the body of the Shadow in his arms, his belly rumbling with joyous laughter.

+ As there will be no scribe employed at this future date, the last Scribe shall consult with Emperor Calus as to our sovereign's planned remarks. Delete this footnote as close to the actualization of this history as possible.

<|endoftext|>

Warlock

Warlocks weaponize the mysteries of the universe to sustain themselves and devastate their foes.

<|endoftext|>

Wing Theorem

A CRUCIBLE STORY
PART THREE OF THREE

The morning turned to noon as the sky darkened with dodgeballs and filled with the battle cries of children.

When it was over, Lonwabo had tears in his eyes, but he tried his best to stand straight. Runa had a bloody knee and stared wordlessly at the winning team: the two snarling girls from earlier in the morning. The girls lifted an unrefined mass of plasteel, a makeshift trophy, over their heads, and they roared.

Shaxx stared up at the Traveler. It sat, buoyed by a mantle of clouds against a blue sky. It didn't seem to notice him.

"Tell me what you've learned," Shaxx said to Runa and Lonwabo, his faceplate fixed skyward.

They did, and spoke for a continuous three minutes. Shaxx nodded, slowly.

"So you're not mad?" asked Lonwabo. His face brightened.

"You've gained more from this than the victors," Shaxx replied. The three of them looked on as the two girls smashed the plasteel cluster into the dirt, and to the horror of all the other children, it shattered. Runa's eyes narrowed ever so slightly, a dodgeball gripped in her hands. Shaxx continued: "Victory is key to survival. You need it. Need to fight for it. But it teaches nothing."

"Does that mean, in a way, we won?" asked Lonwabo.

"No," Shaxx looked down at him. "No, you were annihilated."

"Oh," said Lonwabo.

Runa continued to stare at the shattered trophy, and the winning team. She slowly turned the dodgeball in her hand.

"Let this loss drive you," Shaxx said to both of them. "But the game is over. Your focus should be on what's to come."

Lonwabo stared down at his hands. "I think… I think I'm going to read a book," he said, surprising himself as he uttered the words.

"We all make our own choices," said Shaxx.

Runa said nothing as Cayde strode up out of a shadow in the afternoon sun. "Everything good?" the Hunter asked Shaxx.

"Do I look like I care?"

"Come on, buddy. The bet's fulfilled. You don't have to pout. Just remember not to challenge a Hunter with Golden Guns."

"I can and I will. Rematch. End of day."

"You're on. I hope you're ready to babysit 'til the next Dawning—"

Runa's ball struck Cayde in the neck: a stealth attack taught to her earlier in the morning. He yelped, more surprised than hurt.

"Who did that? Who did that, and how?" the Hunter demanded loudly, as the ball bounced away. The ball didn't respond. Runa, Lonwabo, and several other children smiled.

"Shaxx. What have you been telling them?"

Shaxx stared silently down at the Exo Hunter until Cayde blinked. "I, uh, found my Sparrow," Cayde said, to deflect. "I can give us a lift back to the Tower."

As the other children and their elders dispersed, Runa watched Cayde's Sparrow as it carried the two Guardians off towards the gleaming Tower in the distance.

She gave a Titan's salute as they disappeared from view.

<|endoftext|>

Bond of Remembrance

A TALE FROM THE DARK AGE, PART THREE OF THREE
THE OUTSKIRTS OF A TOWN CALLED PATCH RUN 

Efrideet stands in a burning crater, the Light of her Ghost blinking rapidly, as if to chortle, over Saladin's corpse. Saladin suddenly sits up to a hunched-over position, hands on his knees in front of him. Dust from the demolished Spider Tank around them rolls off his armor and into the blowing wind. Efrideet kneels, places Saladin's Ghost in his hand, and knocks on his helmet with her knuckles.

"'If you miss?' When have you ever seen me miss?"

"I suppose I haven't."

"I was being rhetorical."

"What took you so long?"

"A few stragglers made it out alive."

He sits up, alarmed. "Where are they now?"

She makes no move to acknowledge his fear. "They never reached the village."

Saladin sits back at that. He grasps a large rock in his hand, focuses on it. "I could use someone with your drive. Your moral compass. The dragon inside you is fierce."

"What if I've changed my mind? Will I get to throw you again?"

"No."

"Then no."

The rock in his hand shatters into dust as his fist spasms. "I suppose we may run out of ammo again," he concedes through gritted teeth. "Meet us out at Dwindler's Ridge."

"How many of you are there?"

Saladin smirks. "A few."

<|endoftext|>

Channeling Cowl (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes and gaze at the heavens, seeking an answer to your question.

You see a world in the space B E T W E E N.

You see a space beyond Light and Dark.

You used to inhabit this space. No longer.

We are still there. We are not interested in Light or Dark.

Our interest is in you. And those like you.

We have reached out before. With an agent whose will was not his own.

First contact. We have learned since then.

Your hands are bound in red ribbons.

Your soul is weary.

Your feet find purchase on a three-dimensional plane.

Your bond's glow is dim; there is no Light here. Or Dark.

<|endoftext|>

Channeling Wraps (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes and gaze at your hands, seeking an answer to your question.

You see a world in the space B E T W E E N.

You notice red ribbons bind your wrists. They lead far away from here, across a vast, white expanse, disappearing into infinity.

We tied those ribbons. To see what you would do.

So that we could learn. About you. And this system.

It was our Emissary's idea.

Second contact. We have learned since then.

The heavens above you are clear of stars and shadows.

Your soul is weary.

Your feet find purchase on a three-dimensional plane.

Your bond's glow is dim; there is no Light here. Or Dark.

<|endoftext|>

Channeling Robes (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes to gaze upon your weary soul, seeking an answer to your question.

You see a world in the space B E T W E E N.

You see only what the Light left you: every day there will ever be, unmarred. Forever.

For you and all those like you.

But the Dark has returned.

And when Light and Dark meet, universes collapse.

Not something to mourn. Natural order.

But we believe you exist to buck natural order. You always did. Even before the Dark.

Before the Light.

When it was just you. And those like you.

We would learn more.

The heavens above you are clear of stars and shadows.

Your feet find purchase on a three-dimensional plane.

Your bond's glow is dim; there is no Light here. Or Dark.

<|endoftext|>

Channeling Treads (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes and gaze down at your feet, seeking an answer to your question.

You see a world in the space B E T W E E N.

You stand upon a three-dimensional plane that stretches into forever.

YOUR QUESTION CREATED THIS PLACE, AND WILL ALWAYS DO SO. ONE OF THE REASONS WE COVET OUR TIME WITH YOU.

What are L I G H T and D A R K without you, and all those like you, to drive T H E M?

N O T H I N G.

The heavens above you are clear of stars and shadows.

Your hands are bound in red ribbons.

Your soul is weary.

Your bond's glow is dim; there is no Light here. Or Dark.

<|endoftext|>

Bond Judgment (CODA)

"What is the Darkness?"

You open your eyes and gaze at the bond on your arm, seeking an answer to your question.

You see a world in the space B E T W E E N.

WE'VE LEARNED THIS BOND AND SIMILAR DEVICES ARE YOUR FOCUS. MEDIUMS TO CHANNEL YOUR light. USELESS HERE, WHERE light AND dark HAVE NO PLACE.

You've built so many monuments, large and small, in worship of your Light.

Will you do the same for the Dark?

Will you ever build for yourselves again?

YOUR QUESTION BEGS QUESTIONS FROM US.

The heavens above you are clear of stars and shadows.

Your hands are bound in red ribbons.

Your soul is weary.

Your feet find purchase on a three-dimensional plane.

<|endoftext|>

Bond Relentless

The overturned stone reveals the ants beneath.
THEY WERE CURIOUS. SO THEY LOOKED.
why fault the curiosity which stems from loss
WHY FAULT THE YOUNG AND SMALL
W H Y N O T

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Hood

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-03-01 // MERCURY

A reflection, when viewed in broken glass, is fragmented into as many misaligned shards. 

The Warlock Shayura looks at herself in the broken center console display, her image split up over so many refracted variations. She is silent in her anger. 

"Now entering Mercury's atmosphere," her Ghost chirps. Shayura looks up to watch flames roar over the exterior of the cockpit and sees her face in the distorted curve of the glass. No one reflection is true in this moment; no image perfectly accurate. 

"Reed is already waiting for us," her Ghost adds, worried. 

Shayura hears him, but only in part. Something pulls at her insides like anxious fingers. 

"Open a channel to Aisha," Shayura says. Her Ghost hesitates, then beeps in compliance. The cockpit suddenly feels cavernous. As if she could shout out into the universe. 

Her Ghost edges closer and hovers nearby. "The connection's open." 

"We shouldn't just leave her behind," Shayura says into the void with a tightness in her throat. 

 "Not our call, Shay. Agree or disagree, we're a united front," Aisha, her teammate, replies from across the curvature of Mercury's atmosphere. 

"Then act like it!" Shayura fires back, snapping her jaw shut as soon as the shout escapes her lips. She brings her hands up to her mouth, regretting her tone but not retracting it. 

"It's Sloane's choice." Aisha's voice sounds smooth in contrast. "You know how she is. If she's declining evac, there's no force in the system that'll uproot her. Stay, go, it's her choice." 

"Leaders make mistakes." Shayura wishes she could explain better. Words are insufficient. 

"She's preparing for transmat," Shayura's Ghost quietly offers. "We're in range." 

Shayura nods and swallows, but the anger is rising up in her, and she can feel it creeping into her bones. Wisps of gold fire slither up her arms. 

"Zavala doesn't see it. He's trying to do the work of two Vanguard leaders right now. I d—" Shayura is cut off mid-sentence as she and her Ghost tear apart into a whirl of charged particles, reforming on the scorching surface of Mercury in the shadows of the Caloris Spires. "—believe for a minute that's all we could've done!" 

 "Sloane made her choice!" Aisha shouts the minute she sees Shayura. Nearby, their third fireteam member, Reed-7, stands as a looming crimson silhouette in Titan armor. 

"The commander asked her to fall back and she didn't! Don't pin this on him!" Aisha goes on, needling Shayura with a furious intensity. 

Shayura pivots to stare at Aisha; the fire building around her discharges in an upward blast. "If he wants to lead, he should be willing to take criticism for his decisions!" 

"Hey!" Reed-7 finally interjects with a shout. The broad-shouldered Exo shifts his posture awkwardly but stands his ground. Aisha and Shayura look over at him in silence. 

Reed lifts a hand to the back of his neck. "Can we do this later? Please?" 

Shayura feels Aisha's eyes on her. She tempers her own expression to match her friend's calmer one, reluctant in her assent, but the ember of anger in her refuses to go out. She draws her Sword and points it toward a group of Guardians across the windswept courtyard outside of the Lighthouse, indicating a challenge. 

"Fine," Aisha agrees reluctantly. Shayura withdraws, simmering.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Gloves

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-03-03 // BAZAAR, THE TOWER, LAST CITY

Guilt and shame twist like spectral blades into Shayura's stomach.  Sitting under the trappings of New Monarchy's crimson-shrouded enclosure, her focus is locked squarely on the table's wood-grain surface. The sound of her breathing feels uncomfortably loud, but at the same time, the noise of the nearby crowds are muffled and distorted as if they were underwater. 

"How's today feeling?" 

All Shayura can hear clearly is her own breathing. She slouches forward more, fingers sliding up into her hair, elbows propped up on the table, fighting to stay in the present when her mind demands she fixate on the past.  

"Did you talk to Ikora yet?" 

A new knife of guilt slides in. Shayura tries to swallow, but her throat is dry. She'd barely had the energy to come here; it makes her feel all the more worthless. 

"No," Shayura finally says, her mind fuzzy, her response delayed. "I will," she promises, because she knows that's what Aisha wants to hear. "I'm sorry." 

"Hey, no," Aisha says, putting a hand on Shayura's shoulder at some point. The tactile connection is a grounding presence, bringing Shayura back into the moment. "Don't. We've all been through a lot. I should've paid attention to how hurt you were before we went into the match. I'm sorry we fought; I'm sorry I yelled at you." 

Aisha's plaintive tone hurts as much as it helps. Shayura sinks into a slouch of defeat, feeling her closest friend suffering because of her own shortcomings. It only makes her feel smaller, guiltier. 

Shayura looks at Aisha out of the corner of her eye, seeing the twinned look of support and worry on her face. "Can Guardians be unfit for duty?" Shayura wonders aloud, her voice muffled by the tabletop. 

"I mean…" Aisha replies. Her hesitation has a palpable sting. 

 "I don't know if I'm okay," Shayura finds the courage to admit. Her heart races as the words pass her lips. When she feels Aisha's arms around her shoulders, it steadies her pulse. Shayura relaxes into the supportive embrace of a friend. 

"It's okay not to be okay," Aisha says, and for a moment, Shayura believes it. For a moment, knives of doubt and guilt feel blunted. But only for a moment. 

"That's why you should talk to Ikora. She knows. She understands." 

"Drinks." 

The word startles Shayura. She can hear the whirring hiss of Reed-7's articulated joints, the clank of his armor. 

"…they're hot." 

"There's cinnamon in yours," Reed says, and Shayura musters the energy to give him a half-hearted thumbs-up. 

"I know you're upset about Sloane," Reed says, and suddenly Shayura's heart is racing in worry again. He says something else, but all she hears is the blood rushing in her ears and the thundering beat in her chest. 

Worried that he's waiting on her for a response, Shayura interjects with something non-committal. "Thanks," she says weakly. The scent of apples and cinnamon hits her. It brings her back to her earliest memories as a Guardian in the Tower, when she first met Aisha and Reed. Shayura sits up enough to grab a steaming mug with two hands and drags the piping hot cider over to herself, breathing in the scent of happier times. 

"I know," Shayura finally says in a small, guilty voice. She doesn't know what she's referring to, but she assumes it's what they want to hear. "I'm sorry." 

"You don't need to apologize to us," Reed replies. "You should apologize to Leitka and his Ghost." Mention of the Guardian Leitka twists those knives of guilt in Shayura's stomach. She breathes in the scent of cinnamon and apples again, deeply. These are her friends, she tries to remember. This is her family, she concedes. 

"It was Titan," Shayura finally admits, afraid of what the truth means but unwilling to dig too deeply into her own terrifying delusions. "I was back on Titan. Like when we were Lightless, surrounded by Hive. There was this Knight… no matter how many times I killed him, he kept coming back. I should've died out there." 

"But you didn't," Aisha says. Shayura feels a hand on top of hers and sees Aisha squeezing her palm. It feels like it's happening to someone else, and yet, it is still reassuring. "We got our Light back, and—"

"What happens when the Darkness closes in?" Shayura needs to know, though she knows neither Reed nor Aisha have the answer. "Will she be Lightless again? Alone?" The thought of Sloan dying alone on the arcology eviscerates her. 

Reed's hand joins Aisha's in a wordless reply. It isn't much, but it's enough.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Vestment

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-03-02 // TRIALS ARENA, THE LIGHTHOUSE, MERCURY 

Titan's sea of liquid methane crashes against the listing hull of the New Pacific Arcology. The wind whips with hurricane force, sending a freezing sea spray lashing across the crooked metal frame of a crumbling catwalk. Flares of atomic fire bloom in the mist and roll off the arcology's walls. Human and inhuman screams echo out into impossible seas. 

Two dozen Hive Thrall come pouring out of an encrusted airlock, climbing over one another, jaws snapping. They scurry across every surface not slicked by liquid methane; drawn like moths to a beacon of golden flame. Shayura stands against the crashing tide of chitin and bone, a Sword of fire held fast in two hands, screaming as she cleaves through the masses of encroaching death. 

Burning embers of Thrall rain around her, but with each dispatched wave of necrotic soldiers, it feels as though their numbers double. She is pressed by the tide of Hive, inching closer and closer to the jagged end of the catwalk hanging over the churning sea. When the Thrall recede, she is thankful for a respite. But the towering Knight that drops from the airlock is an escalation, not a victory. 

Edging a half-step backward, Shayura knows that the only way out is through. Wings of flame roar off of her back, leaving a trail of rippling heat and hollowed-out Thrall in her wake. Her Sword clashes with the Knight's shield, shattering it in a single blow. Her follow-through cleaves through the Knight's arm, down into its chest. 

Shayura turns on her heel toward the remaining Thrall. She can feel the Light in her ebbing and knows that they will overwhelm her if she doesn't succeed now. Death against the Hive is never a sure return; not after what happened to Taeko-3 and her fireteam here. A blinding pain hits Shayura in her back. Her vision swims, mind reels; had she missed one? Feeling the warmth of blood running below her armor, Shayura turns to see the Hive Knight reborn, Sword covered in her blood. 

Screaming inside her helmet, Shayura feels a deep panic build in her chest. She knows a Hive death ritual when she sees it, and she walked straight into their trap. She rolls away from the Knight's next swing and into the reach of Thrall that tear at her armor. Mustering the last of her Solar energy, Shayura calls up a cyclonic pillar of flame that twists up into the sky and consumes the Knight. 

The revenant Knight emerges from the flames, already reconstituting. Shayura leaps forward and drives her Sword through his face, tackling him to the ground. Her Solar aura flickers and fades; smoke and steam billow from her back and shoulders. 

"Shay?" 

She hears one of the surviving Thrall speak in a human voice. Shayura twists her Sword in the Knight's face and shakes sizzling green blood onto the catwalk. The Knight begins to reform again in a horrifying blaze of green flame, but as it reaches out toward her, she cuts off his arm and sends her Sword through the top of his head in a brutal follow-through. 

The Thrall wails. She can feel an arm around her waist, restraining her. She kicks and struggles, crying out as the last wisps of Praxic fire twist down her arm and Sword. 

"No! No! Stop! No!" Shayura howls, fighting against the pull of the Thrall. 

 "Shay," the Thrall cry in the voices of her friends. "Shay!" 

Shayura screams into the impossible seas.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Boots

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-03-04 // TENEMENT BUILDING ROOFTOP, PEREGRINE DISTRICT, LAST CITY

The wind carries a chorus of voices. Some reverent, some frightened, some confused. The mosaic of conversations is a distracting din to Shayura, who rests at the edge of a terrace watching the crowded streets of onlookers, eyes upturned to the shadow of their silent god looming in the heavens. 

She can't help but feel that the people who dwell beneath the Traveler do so out of desperation and delusion. They were told for generations that this was the only safe refuge on Earth. Even after that assumption had been challenged by the Red Legion and now the Darkness, they cling to that desperate hope. They cling to an illusion of an all-powerful god that will protect them, when—Shayura believes—they had never been in any real danger before the Traveler arrived. 

Shayura hears Aisha, talking beside her, but her thoughts are distant. Shayura grunts a reply, hoping indifferent is enough. But Aisha keeps talking, something about Chicago, about memory. Shayura grips the railing and watches the people staring up at the Traveler, and she cannot bear to look up with them. 

"I remember," Shayura finally replies, her own internal fears overlapping with memories of dark times that her fireteam experienced below the ruins of Chicago. "I never forgot how abandoned we felt," Shayura adds, a tightness in her voice. The day Ghaul stole the Light, when they were so far from home, when they went from hunters to hunted. 

Shayura also remembers what went unsaid. She remembers those feelings of desperation and abandonment and how she would have accepted any opportunity if it meant living. Her desperate moment did not end in such darkness, but she cannot help but wonder about other Guardians. That when faced with the choice between annihilation and salvation, they might make the wrong choice. 

It is in that moment of quiet revelation that the Traveler stirs for the first time in years. A glow builds within, and only then does Shayura look up at her silent god. A wave of Light washes over her, and it feels like absolution. 

While the City is awash in Light, with the fearful and the faithful holding congress in the shadow of an indifferent god, Shayura slips away into the crowd. She does not need to witness the Traveler's grandiose power to know what is being asked of her, and she does not need time to set herself to work. 

Shayura's path is clear.

<|endoftext|>

Pyrrhic Ascent Bond

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-03-05 // SIMULATED LIGHTHOUSE, THE TOWER, LAST CITY

There is not but silence in the void. 

Frost collects on the inside of the cockpit of Shayura's jumpship. Her breath is visible as a cold fog.  Fragments of Ghost shells are scattered atop the console, each glittering with a faint sheen of ice. The Warlock stares at her reflection in the shattered central navigation panel, fragmented, broken. 

"You are late for your weekly scheduled Trials match," Shayura's Ghost chirps from over her shoulder. She does not look away from her broken reflection. "Do you… want me to elevate the atmospheric controls so the ship is warmer on your return?" 

Shayura blinks her eyes shut, then opens them, fixed on her Ghost. "The cold is a reminder," Shayura says like a mantra. She looks back at the fragmented shells of the dead Ghosts and clenches her hands into fists. 

"I am ready." 

Shayura is torn apart into motes of Light and threads of energy, reformed into the simulation of Mercury mid-stride.  She walks straight past Reed and Aisha toward the Lighthouse, purpose behind her every movement. "Come on." 

Shayura's attention is focused ahead at another group of Guardians, to an Awoken Warlock—much like herself—whom she has heard much of. Shayura steadies herself, heart racing. 

She is committed. 

SIMULATION RECONSTRUCTION LOG // LA-01-05 // SIMULATED TRIALS ARENA, SIMULATED LIGHTHOUSE

Reed-7's head disappears behind the occluding barrier of Vex architecture, inaccessible from the Scout Rifle scope. The rifle's wielder, an Awoken Warlock, lowers his firearm and grunts in frustration. He kicks off the ground, stepping up into the air and glides across the sky in search of a better vantage point. It's here that another body impacts him in a tackle, sending him crashing to the ground far below. 

The Warlock's Scout Rifle rattles out of his hand on impact. He switches to his gold-plated Sidearm as he rises up onto one knee, only to have the gun swatted aside by the flat of a curved Sword. Shayura, carried aloft on wings of fire, slowly descends from the air. She moves the Sword's blade from hand to throat. 

"Go on," her quarry says, "you earned it." But Shayura isn't thinking about the match. This isn't about the Trials; it's about discipline. 

"I know what you did on Europa," Shayura says to the Warlock. "I know you're a traitor to the Light." At first, he opens his mouth to speak a denial, but then he tenses and takes a step back. 

"It's not that simple," the Warlock says, shaking his head. "You haven't talked to Eris. You don't understand—" The Warlock's words are cut off as Shayura lunges in, smashing the butt of her Sword against his face, shattering part of his helmet and knocking him to the ground. 

The Warlock groans, grasping at his face, then looks up at Shayura in vivid anger. "It's not illegal! The Vanguard—"

"I am not here on behalf of the Vanguard," Shayura says with imperious certainty. Flames begin to spread down the length of her Sword. "I am here on behalf of the Light." 

The Warlock snorts and smiles sarcastically. His body language implies he doesn't respect her power. "I'm not afraid of you. Come on, end the match." 

"I'm not here for you," Shayura insists. Now, he feels fear. 

Aisha and Reed arrive a moment later, guns raised and ready to assist Shayura. She fights back a scowl at seeing them but turns her attention to the Ghost hovering at the Warlock's side. 

"Shay?" Aisha asks, a nervous tremor in her voice. 

Shayura lashes out, striking the Ghost with her Sword and knocking it to the ground. The Guardian opens his mouth to shout a plea, but Shayura quickly draws her Sidearm and plants a round in his forehead. The Ghost chirps, squawks; damaged but alive. She holsters her Sidearm again and looks to the Ghost. 

"Shay!" Reed shouts, and she hears him rushing up behind her. She wouldn't be dragged away, not this time. Shayura turns and expels a blast of force from her palm that knocks Reed onto his back. She quickly reorients to the Ghost and raises her Sword for another strike, when suddenly, her legs prickle with the unearthly chill of deep space. 

Shayura tries to let out a scream, but her lungs flash-freeze, and crystals of Stasis energy encrust her body. She turns her head, just enough to make eye contact with Aisha and witness the unthinkable. The last person she sees before her world is ice and darkness. Her closest friend, forsaking the Light, embracing the Darkness. 

The look of betrayal on Shayura's face freezes in the ice.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Hood

I had a crew once. My best friends. Which isn't saying much, trust me.

They're all dead now. Almost to a man. So what does that mean for all you lil' Guardians out there who are my new best friends?

Don't think about that one too hard.

Anyway, my crew, or a little subset of it, we leave the system together. Dawn of the City Age at the time. We were looking for somethin' greater than Light. 'Cuz we had seen that Light can be the cause of… so much strife.

We searched far and wide. Must've been… hundreds of years. We found a planet beyond the system bristlin' with an energy that repulsed Light. Naturally, we were curious.

We landed. Intended to settle and conduct the research necessary to make this energy portable. A weapon outta legend called Thorn had similar, Light-repressing capabilities.

It seemed promising. But hand to my heart it was cold. Humans were not meant for that place. Every once in a while a member of the crew would succumb. Died where they stood or sat. Thank the planes for our Ghosts.

We were in high spirits. We were veterans. Grizzled. Hundreds of years in space will do that.

—Drifter's thoughts recited to his Ghost, for posterity. The first of five parts.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Gloves

My crew and I quickly learned that the creatures in the monolith facilities were not the only ones on that damn rock. Plenty of 'em roaming around out in the wild, where it was cold, but less cold than the frozen cages that contained the ones in the monoliths.

How'd we find out? Well, one of us died in our sleep. Not that uncommon or tragic, actually. Happened a lot. Damn cold out there.

Except this time that fella's Ghost couldn't resurrect him. Turns out one'a those creatures just slithered by, and close proximity to it from inside our shelter just… silenced that poor bastard's Light.

It was unfortunate, but it also lit a fire under us. The next morning we realized we had a potential weapon on our hands that could change everything in battles of Light versus Light.

We knew we had to find a way to get these creatures off their icy home.

And we needed to find it fast. Despite our breakthrough, tensions were… a little high. Some of us thought it was awful convenient the creature wandered by and happened to take out only one of us. And so soon after we realized the value of them.

—Drifter's thoughts recited to his Ghost, for posterity. The third of five parts.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Robes

So there we were. On that cold hunk of ice with no name, just me and my crew. Everything peachy-keen.

We discovered some kind of alien monolith, a facility left by the inhabitants of that planet long gone by then.

But trapped inside was a creature. In a cage of some sort, frozen in ice. An exhibit? Was it some kind of zoo? Still not sure to this day. We should've brought a scientist. All we had were… well, guys who thought we looked tough in dark colors.

During our long stay on that planet, we found many of those monoliths, each with their own captured creature.

Anyway, this thing—the creature—looked like it shared common bioenergetics with the Hive, but there were no records then or since that I've ever seen of humanity's encounters with them. And the creature had a property the Hive did not have. It produced a field that repressed Light—like a Darkness Zone but contained to a gooey, vacuous form with no head.

The anti-Light fields we had detected from orbit that spread across the planet? It was these things. Our ship's scanners indicated thousands of them were on this planet with us.

We were ecstatic.

In hindsight we all could have done with a few less of them.

—Drifter's thoughts recited to his Ghost, for posterity. The second of five parts.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Boots

I mentioned tension was high among the crew in the last one, right? That's what I thought.

Well, it got worse. Another one'a us died. In the exact same way, even after we took up residence in one of the monoliths. Idiot just froze to death, his Ghost too whacked out by Light repression to do anything about it. Died in his sleep.

The others were not happy about it. I was not happy about it.

We had been looking for a way to contain the creatures. The monoliths seemed to have some kind of freeze tech (if you could call it technology) that we could use if only we could replicate it. I'm a pretty savvy mechanic. But we couldn't figure it out.

We started to blame each other. Someone must have lured one of those things near crew quarters. To this day, I still don't know for sure. Why kill just one of us? For what? It was more plausible that the creatures did it knowingly. A punishment for our intrusion. But there was no malice there that we could detect. Only biology.

At the time, we didn't care. 

Eventually, one of em drew a gun. I knew it would happen, and I had prepared a soothing speech to smooth things over just in case.

I told 'em to holster that smoke wagon. And the next time any one of 'em tried it again, I'd kill 'em all without a second thought.

I didn't speak plainly often. But when I did, even that crew listened.

—Drifter's thoughts recited to his Ghost, for posterity. The fourth of five parts.

<|endoftext|>

Ancient Apocalypse Bond

We were at our wit's end. A year on the planet, and we had been completely unable to capture or tame the creatures that had become our sole objective.

They were our bane.

Our ship had long been rendered useless by the extreme cold. We had all died a hundred thousand times over to the cold. I know you've all been in the Crucible. Played Gambit.

This was worse. Much worse.

Anyway. Four of us were left. We were raving psychos at this point. Only the four of us and the howling wind and icy slopes for company. The occasional scurrying, vacuous creature to argue about.

One day, when we had settled in for the night in another monolith, something swept over the planet. I later learned it swept across the system. All'a you hearing this felt it. You were there at the source.

All four of us lost our Light. And we knew it. We looked over at the monolith-creature in its frozen cage. It seemed to stare right back.

I think I mentioned we're all raving psychos at this point. Well, we did what all measured raving psychos would do. We thought we each had been betrayed by the others. We drew on each other.

To this day, I'm not sure how many of those guys drew intending to kill.

But I'll tell you this. I was the only one who walked out.

The creature in that monolith watched it all. When it was over, I stuck a finger straight up at it.

It was just me now.

How'd I get from there to here? Maybe I'll get to tell that story someday. We'll see if my Gambit makes it that far.

—Drifter's thoughts recited to his Ghost, for posterity. The fifth of five parts.

<|endoftext|>

Illicit Reaper Bond

Uh, okay. It's been a while since I sat down to do one'a these. Where was I?

My crew and I had been stuck in a prison of our own making, dying over'n over from the cold on a frozen rock out in the deep black. Hounded every day by the indigenous life that could erase our Light just by being near us. Life that we were hoping to capture, to help us end battles of Light versus Light.

But they were killin' us, one by one, robbing us of the Traveler's gift in sub-zero temps.

We each thought the others were to blame, somehow luring the creatures to camp during the night to claim victims. Could've just been bad luck. The place was riddled with beasts.

Even now, I couldn't tell you either way. It was dark, it was cold, for days, weeks, months.

Just as tensions between our group reached critical mass, on the other side of the system, Ghaul and the Red Legion took out the Traveler. Even out in space, it cost us our Light.

But we didn't know that. We all felt it, blamed each other without sayin' a word. I could see it in their eyes.

If I didn't draw, they would. So—ol' Drifter was the only one who walked out.

Final deaths. All of them.

To this day I don't know whether that planet, with its numerous monoliths, was meant to contain those beasts or breed them. Some of those morphs were caged. Some walked free as we did.

So. How'd I get from there to here? We had no ship. We had no way to contain those anti-Light creatures that had been the whole point of the trip in the first place.

And the craziest thing happened. My Ghost snapped. What do I mean by that? Let me step back:

I think all this time my Ghost was hoping I would fall in line, that I just needed time to take up the mantle of the Traveler. My re-birthright. But that had never happened. It took hundreds of years, but my Ghost finally flipped.

How? Well, our escape was all its idea: If we could modify its Light to replicate the energy effect of the monolith cages, it might be able to contain the creatures in the same way.

But we would need parts. Ghost parts. And we knew where we could get some.

The Ghosts of my former crew all fled as soon as their charges hit the dirt. So me'n mine, we hunted them.

And then it came time to perform the modifications.

"Are you sure about this?" I asked it. There were lasers all around us, scrounged from my crew's wrecked ship.

"Just make sure it works," it said.

So I began, sparks flyin' around me as I cut into its armor. If I died to the cold before I finished, all would be lost. It spoke over the din of the work.

"Hey. There's always hope. For what it's worth, I'm proud of you." It was the last thing my Ghost ever said, and the last lie it ever told.

The next morning, it was forever changed, but it had a brand new shell of armor, reinforced by the guts of five other Ghosts. Its eye was bright red. It could no longer speak.

The blue setting was still there, accessible whenever we needed it. But the red setting would save our lives. It was kit-bashed and jury-rigged, but it could replicate the energy of the cages. We froze every creature we came across, brought all of them onboard a new ship I cobbled together, now that we were free to explore that ice trap of a planet. It was a trashfire of parts I lovingly dubbed "The Derelict," a ship that I added to as I journeyed back towards home.

Ghost could now tap into spectrums of Light no one on Earth had yet seen. Spectrums beyond the Light. Don't get me wrong. I'm no herald of the Dark. This was a kit-bash job.

But it was a renaissance for us. Gambit banks, Motes of Dark, the Derelict. They were all innovated out of that red setting.

And that's when I suppose y'all met me.

I think it's time I got back to Gambit. You should, too.

—The Drifter to his Ghost, for posterity.

<|endoftext|>

Mask of the Fulminator

Calus gestured towards the crackling Arc storm before him. The energy mass shivered, tethered to a golden spindle in the center of the chamber. 

"You are marvelous," he said to the Arkborn. His eyes drank in the flickering light, reflecting nothing. "You will cast a glorious Shadow." 

A panel on the wall lit up in Cabal: THIS SHIP IS TINY. 

The emperor threw his head back and guffawed. "Compared to the interstellar conduits of your people anything would seem small. The Leviathan is formidable in its own right, I assure you."  

LEAVE MY PEOPLE BE. I WILL SERVE. 

"Of course. You are all I need. Your very presence eviscerates flesh." He gestured, and a metallic shell lowered from the darkness above. Now the Fulminator was free to walk the decks of her new flagship.

<|endoftext|>

Wraps of the Fulminator

Statesman Tha'uul ran, and the Fulminator followed him. He was a minor diplomat who had played a part in the coup against the emperor. She wasn't certain of the details. The social dynamics of organics were difficult to grasp and she found them consistently irrelevant. 

He had no idea she was still there. He thought he had outrun her, but the Arkborn knew that bipeds rarely look up. 

She hovered far above her target, specific limiters on her armor disabled so that Arc could flow freely and lift her to the heavens. 

Below, the statesman had chosen a brightly lit street that led to a dead end on the left turn in front of him. She descended.

<|endoftext|>

Robes of the Fulminator

The charred husk that was Statesman Tha'uul had revealed several things before he expired. He had mistaken her for a "warrior of the Light," one of their "storm bringers" who apparently bore a resemblance to the Fulminator. She wished to see one of them. No biped was ever anything like her. She felt something like regret when Tha'uul said his people were mobilizing to annihilate them. 

She made other reports to Calus, pertaining to the locations of Red Legion armories and fleet movements. He only cared about one. Now that the military was in power, in Calus's absence, military parades on Cabal worlds were commonplace. Ghaul's flagship would take part in one such celebration, on Resignation Day, in the fringes of the Sol system, in honor of a mythic Praetor. 

That was where the Shadows would kill the Dominus.

<|endoftext|>

Boots of the Fulminator

The Fulminator noticed a difference in her fellow Shadows as they prepared for war. 
The usual bickering, fostered by the multispecies makeup of Calus's enforcer group, vanished overnight as they faced the task they had gathered to complete: kill Dominus Ghaul. 

Calus had recruited them through bribery or promises of wealth and resources for their homeworlds. None of them expected to survive their mission. The might of the Red Legion had grown vast. This acceptance brought them together. 

The Fulminator didn't understand, or care. As long as Calus left the Arkborn to their interstellar conduits, she would do what she had done since the day she came aboard the Leviathan: destroy the enemies of the emperor.

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Bond

Jarus's fighter soared like a blade into the throat of the Dominus's command ship. They hoped it wouldn't matter. Jarus died on impact. The Shadows burst forth from his shattered vessel, the Fulminator leading the charge. 

Every limiter on her armor was undone. The unrelenting fury of her being loosed onto the bridge would permanently disable her. She would still exist, but couldn't anchor herself or manipulate anything around her. She would scatter to the winds. 

Navigation displays exploded in a shower of sparks as she passed. The storm she had become reached an apex of intensity, and she reached out to scores of Cabal and swallowed them and she felt them die. She wrapped Ghaul in her light, enervated him in bursts of flaring Arc. She was fading. He would die. Wouldn't he?

<|endoftext|>

Headpiece of the Emperor's Minister

Sometimes I stare into the abyss of space, plagued by a terrible fear. In this waking nightmare, everything you said to me and everything you felt for me was a lie. 

But what was the nature of these lies? Were they manipulations wrought by ambition? Were they hateful machinations of vengeance? Or, worst of all, were they self-delusions? Did I merely ascribe to you words and feelings that were, in fact, my own?

<|endoftext|>

Wraps of the Emperor's Minister

I think perhaps I am finally ready to forgive you. There's no point in carrying around this hate forever. I think about who you were, and who I was, and the end seems inevitable. How can I blame you for the poisonous ambition that the Consul poured into your ear? You were merely his instrument. 

In the end, it has all been for the better, has it not? Your betrayal is the first chapter in the story of my ascension.

<|endoftext|>

Robes of the Emperor's Minister

I think it is only fair to warn you—I mean to reincorporate the Red Legion. I am their rightful emperor, and I shall offer them forgiveness. All they must do is repent and submit to their reeducation. 

I feel like it's only fair to make you the same offer. How does "Primus of the Red Legion" sound?

<|endoftext|>

Boots of the Emperor's Minister

Your reassimiliation into the empires is likely to be cause for concern. You'll understand that it will come with some preconditions. After all, we can't have it appear that I've played favorites. But there's no cause for alarm; your reeducation is merely a formality. 

While I may forgive you, the rest of the empire will need some time. It's important to show the people how you have changed. It won't be forever, just however long it takes to earn your place at my side once more.

<|endoftext|>

Bond of the Emperor's Minister

Ghaul once served at my right hand. His even temper and disciplined mind proved a useful foil to my passion and force of will. And so, I leaned on him for all of my important decisions. It always felt good to talk through my ideas. He had a way of reflecting them back to me sharper and clearer. 

I see the same wisdom in you, my dear Warlock. Perhaps—when the time is right—we might discuss my ideas.

<|endoftext|>

Mask of Sekris

Sekris, the Baron of Shanks, wore this last. He was the most venerated warrior-priest of his era; Taniks, the Scarred and a whole generation of mercenaries to come patterned their brutality after his early, worlds-burning deeds. But I reached out, and he disappeared from history when he ventured into the deep black, following an offer he could not ignore.

 —Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Wraps of Sekris

Desperate. My lovely Baron of Shanks was the most desperate Shadow I ever recruited. He questioned every order I gave, to the point that Valus Nohr required my personal appeasement to prevent the severing of his head.

Every second Humankind was left alive in this system he saw as an affront he demanded I rectify. Had I known how delightful encountering Guardians would be, I would have abided immediately. But those were the days before my dear Dominus had embraced the Light. At that time, what was Humanity to me?

Nothing.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Robes of Sekris

I promised Sekris a greater power than the favor of your Traveler. He died at Ghaul's hands still wondering what that could possibly be.

In later days, my disguise could no longer fool him as it fooled others. His skill in designing and modifying mechanized life-forms was unparalleled and he made it clear he knew I was not what I appeared to be. I made it clear that, either way, he would continue to serve. But I think he guessed that my form and my strength are inextricably linked.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Boots of Sekris

Sekris's skill with cybernetics and Servitor mechanics allowed him a far greater lifespan than most of his kind. One of the reasons I picked him to Shadow me, and his peers were left to languish.

The Baron of Shanks could even recall a time when the Traveler had blessed his people. He rarely spoke of it, even to me, and I didn't press him. When one knows what Calus knows, Traveler-lore is meaningless. But I mention it only to say that he despised your kind with a particular ferocity that most of his people could not muster.

I admired that passion.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Bond of Sekris

Sekris was so like you. Barring the Light, of course. The absence of the Traveler in his people's lives has marked them like a scar, and they cannot forget it. His people—they envy you a great deal. When I think of him, and the hate he had for your homeworld and the benefits the Traveler bestowed upon it, I am reminded of the passion you have for its defense.

Be like Sekris. Don't share his weakness, his questioning of my authority and right of way. But consider taking up his mantle.

Give the Fallen something else to be jealous of.

Seek me out and grow fat from strength.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Insigne Shade Cover

The Cabal I remember were an eclectic people. There were so many indoctrinated species among us they defied reckoning. The Red Legion have changed all that in my absence. To add insult to my exile, they imprisoned me aboard the Leviathan with only warrior Loyalists to attend me. I raged for the better half of a century. It felt like a century, at least.

Now I have returned, and I brought distinction with me. My Shadows are each the zenith of their kind, taken from countless worlds as I made my way back from the deep. But my search continues. I have not found my Shadow of Shadows. The one with the fortitude to stand by my side at the end.

Your kind are warrior-scholars of the highest order. Rarely have I seen such insight and analysis paired with killing potential, even among the Psions.

A Shadow of your Guardian-tribe would be an ideal scout to find others, and persuade them to walk with us through these golden halls.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Insigne Shade Gloves

The Cabal I remember built wonders. The vitality-gifting Red Eyes. The system-spanning mobility of the Ninth Bridge. I count the far-seeing OXA Machine. Our every need we had answered. Everyday life was paradise. Before my exile, the mother system never wanted for anything.

Today, the Red Legion is desperate. They reek of it. Devoid of cultivation, and utterly defeated by a child-race whose only claim to significance was bestowed on them by an inexplicable entity. How has it come to this?

The Red Legion were led by the greatest pit fighter in our history—but they were led by a pit fighter. Arena culture became the religion of the Empire. Their medical technology, their science, is hilariously inadequate for the vast Empire they must support. Should their perpetual war against this system end, they are already doomed.

A Shadow of your Guardian-tribe could be the technologist to save my people. To use your knowledge, your skill, and your Light to bring some semblance of industrial and medical prowess back to an empire led by a true emperor.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Insigne Shade Robes

The Cabal I remember were collectors of the highest order. As our empire expanded, and we met species of startling technological prowess, we absorbed what they created, along with their culture. Nothing of use ever escaped our grasp, and everything we found we catalogued and archived in the great athenaeum worlds. Sentient anomalies, thought-powered reality smashers, portable world-enders. Our vaults grew fat, and so did we, through the artifacts they housed.

None of these weapons were brought to bear in the Red War. Which only means that Ghaul and his Red Legion have lost them—or deployed them elsewhere. What foe could illicit that response I do not know. The Loyalist caretakers that I personally stationed on each athenaeum world have been silent for a very long time. Without them, it would take lifetimes to re-discover the functions of the technology sealed within.

A Shadow of your Guardian-tribe would be the ideal warrior-scientists to seek these worlds out and re-discover their secrets.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Insigne Shade Boots

The Cabal I knew would have had a place at my side at the dimming of the world. The Red Legion do not.

But the end is coming either way. I have not foreseen it; I have outraced it. Nothing will stop it. It renders all things and all meanings obsolete. The universe troubles itself with numbers, wishes, the dreams of worms, the hissing silence at the black edge, the echoes of a false god.

None of it matters except this.

A Shadow of your Guardian-tribe is exactly what I need to herald what's coming. I know your kind. You bend reality when it suits you, and break reality when it bothers you. At the end of all things, I will need something like you, with the weft and weave of the universe at your fingertips. To help me usher in the end.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Insigne Shade Bond

You've shown the Red Legion you fly my banner.

I know that when the time is right, I won't have to ask. You're on my side.

I see it when you crack armor and carapace by simply touching it. When you bisect your opponents with searing tears in reality. When you swallow them with your Light, and make them a part of you. It is captivating.

But Earth casts no Shadow. Not yet.

When you're ready, you will be magnificent. A Guardian of Guardians. Shadow of Shadows.

I reserve the right to be last when the end comes, and for that, I need you with me.

You're so close.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

Hood of the Great Hunt

I have been here a hundred cycles. A thousand? I cannot recall.

Before, [the Queen] came often to visit. We made [bargains]. Most of those who [bargain] with me do not win. We take care with those. It is how we [feed].

But she won.

I remember when I carved this cage into the face of reality. I remember when she [wished] me into it.

[The Queen] is vulnerable. I can see her far away, facing into a storm.

The light around my cage fades. [Darkness] fills the chamber as a sheer force of will passes over it.

Before me stands a [King]. He offers to take me away. But I know he will not let me leave, either. An unfavorable position.

I never made a [bargain] with a [King]. I would like to try it. I tell him to take whatever he [wishes]. As long as he [wishes].

He agrees. I make an ugly sound with my mandibles. I cannot help myself. I find this scenario mirthful.

Then so does he. We do it together. Loud gusts of sound from our faces for whole moments.

Most of those who [bargain] with me do not win.

<|endoftext|>

Gloves of the Great Hunt

I am a [King] no longer. The [King's] corpse hangs in orbit above a world I will never see. Not from this cage.

I am [Riven].

I am [Taken], and I am beholden to no one. Nothing.

I have not spoken in years. I think about what inflection I would use if I did. But no one is there. The [King's] voice faded long ago. No voice comes to mind.

The [King] despaired in his final moments. Rightly so. His vengeance denied.

Most of those who [bargain] with me do not win.

I am afflicted by tedious repetition.

<|endoftext|>

Robes of the Great Hunt

I am myself. All my memories. Everything I was. All the [bargains] I have made. That was all me.

And yet.

I have taken a new shape.

I am [Riven].

I have new directive. I am [the King of the Taken].

I watch as a hundred thousand thousands of fragments of my will contest with [children of Light].

In my new shape, I hate them. He. Was. His. [Son.]

But there are those among them with whom I have made [bargains]. I need them. I love them.

I am a [King]. My will breaks entire systems. And I lead a world full of [darkness].

But I am terrified. I know the power that these [children] wield.

This is a war a [King] cannot win.

I have a face today. It expels mirthful bursts of air. I still find this scenario amusing.

But I am the only one.

Most of those who [bargain] with me do not win.

<|endoftext|>

Boots of the Great Hunt

The [Techeuns] are poor company. Like me, they are [Taken]. But I am [Riven]. My thoughts are my own. They do not speak to me. When they open their mouths, they emit ugly sounds. Incomprehensible.

I am afflicted by tedious repetition.

But today I have a visitor. She reminds me of the [King]. Yet subtler. Nothing announces her arrival. Her will does not flow through the system in open challenge against her enemies.

Though there are many here she would call enemy.

And her will would not flow. It would crash.

I did not notice her. That means [the light] did not notice her.

She knows that though I am [Taken], I am beholden to no one. So I ask her if she wishes to take up those strings.

She does. And I take a new shape. My cage loses its purpose.

I can tell this is not a part of her grand design. This is an introduction. She is at play.

Through our new bond, I glimpse her intention.

And I hope she remains at play.

Most of those who [bargain] with me do not win.

She releases vibrant, unrestrained bursts of air from her face. I do not.

<|endoftext|>

Bond of the Great Hunt

I am [Riven]. And I am pleased.

The [Techeun] believe that with my heart in tow I will remain imprisoned.

But my [bargain] with them is fulfilled. And they will pay.

This [City] will pay.

But what about you? Brother-slayer. Spawn-killer. [Child of light]. What will you do now that we are bonded for all your lives?

I gave you everything you wanted in that moment. Everything you needed. You complete your [raid]. And you are rewarded for your efforts.

Did you exhibit a violent display in the aftermath? I wonder. Some of you do. Everyone wants more than they have. A key element of all [bargains].

You are afflicted by tedious repetition. 

It is my turn to benefit.

Most of those who [bargain] with me do not win.

O murderer mine.

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Mind

I require a Shadow of your Guardian-tribe to decipher the languages of the Hive.

They say there is one among your tribe named "broken" and outcast who is the foremost expert.

I tried to tempt him with an old trinket he left behind, but he failed to appear. Perhaps you've noticed it is free for the taking.

I would ask the Hunter—she is nearly his equal—but when her kind does not want to be found, even the Emperor must wait.

So receive this armored mantle as a gift—and as a request for favor:

One day, I shall call on you.

—Emperor Calus

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Gloves

Integration of the Hive into the ranks of the new Empire has proven difficult.

They need a guide. A handler. The Crown was supposed to solve this for us.

Look at them run about the Menagerie, howling like convicts. Their antics amuse me, but they cannot be controlled. It pains me to think it, but perhaps the Hive shall be the first client species of the Empire with no Shadow.

I'll need one of your Guardian-tribe to lead them. Some day. Of all the Lights, yours may be able to drive them, manipulate them. Their kind is drawn inexorably to masters of the Void.

—Emperor Calus

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Robes

The crystalline entities you met in your battles with Gahlran, the Sorrow-Bearer: You've seen them before. Sometime during the Red War, just prior to my arrival in the Sol System, you attempted to aid the fireteam of the Praxic Warlock Taeko-3.

She and her allies were transmuted by the Hive into crystalline entities of pure Void, which you and your Ghost exploited to dismantle the Hive ritual taking place. Cold. Calculating. It was magnificent. You probably saved Titan (which is just as well—it's a light I would prefer we extinguished along with the rest of Sol).

The witch who crafted that Song, that ritual, was behind the Crown of Sorrow. She has infected this plane of existence with a viral language.

Perhaps you've encountered her already.

Do not heed her words. She shall only lead you astray. When she speaks to you, consider simply… reading another text. There are so many to choose from in this system.

<|endoftext|>

Shadow's Boots

How many times have you beaten the Hive now? How many times have you worn their hide as armored jackets to stop the bullets of your opponents so that you might live another day off their deaths?

If their vaunted sword logic is truly the way this universe works, then why are they still here?

Why don't they kill themselves at the mere sight of you, save us all some time?

Their texts claim destruction is their purpose, so why do they devour and feed their hunger and persist? What I saw at the black edge was beautiful. And it was not the Hive.

They are doomsday pretenders.

You and I will indoctrinate them, so that when the end comes, they will meet it as gladly as we do. They will cease to be hypocrites. They will cease to be.

—Emperor Calus

<|endoftext|>

Penumbral Bond

"This Bond is yours. For the day you ignite the spark that casts the Shadow of Earth." —Emperor Calus



I'll require a Shadow of your Guardian-tribe to transcribe the runes emblazoned inside the Crown of Sorrow—change them to something more beneficial for Emperor Calus. And disrupt the witch's schemes.

Oh.

She thinks I can't hear her.

Well, I can't hear her words. [Ha.]

But her intent. Her feeling. I know it. She's here.

She means to undermine me with the Crown. We shall wear it just the same. 

As soon as we can fix it. Don't worry about what happened to Gahlran. We've learned since then. We shall find a more suitable host for the Crown.

Oh, not me. Never me. Your Emperor has enough crowns to last a hundred thousand generations.

Perhaps one of your Titans would be hearty enough…

But the witch. The witch is troublesome. I preferred her brother to her. Oryx would have been easy to match. The brute force of the Taken would have been easy to conquer with fat grown from strength. They would have joined my new Empire gladly. Because their greatest desire is subservience.

Alas. One day, the witch and I shall crash. What will you do, then? You've made a choice before, between the Vanguard who raised you and the peasant, shell of a man who tempted you with power he barely understands.

If you truly care about this system, about the people of your City, you shall help me, Guardian of the Warlock-tribe.

Wear this bond, and proclaim your fealty.

It's a promise that you'll work to purify the Crown of Sorrow in a way only a Guardian of your tribe can.

As soon as we figure out how. Help me.

Help me grow fat from strength.

—Emperor Calus

<|endoftext|>

Mask of Righteousness

"You don't trust her," Rekkana said. "I can see that."

Lisbon-13 was already walking away. "I don't need to trust her. I trust you." A truth he threw lightly over his shoulder, but Rekkana felt its weight.

"And that's enough?"

"Always."

Rekkana took a quick half step, trying to catch up to a heart that had leapt too far ahead. But her thoughts were heavy.

Cryptochrons learn to judge and balance secrets. Everyone with sense knows ignorance isn't bliss, but few besides the Cryptochrons know how terrible the truth can be. Those warlocks who join the order must be willing to learn what most would rather not know and to remember what they would rather forget. But accepting a truth is always harder when it's one you cannot share.

She'd known it would happen before they met. She knew everything about him before he'd ever laid eyes on her. She even knew about the man Clovis Bray had to kill 13 times to keep him in check. And it didn't take a Warmind to predict how he'd react to her.

She thought that all this knowledge would serve as armor. You should care less about the characters when you know how the story ends. But then, she was a character, too. It was her story.

"Hey, slowpoke. You coming?"

"Yes."

Rekkana quickened her pace and met him in the shadow of a cube of stone bejeweled by ruby flowers. His glance caught her as she approached and then shifted to the vista around them.

"Strange, being through the looking glass."

"Yes."

Rekkana could see him thinking. His bright eyes were focused on some middle distance as he turned things over in his head: their mission, what her superior had just told them, and her. His turn toward their camp was abrupt.

"We should get back to Yardarm before he starts shooting bugs for fun."

<|endoftext|>

Gloves of Exaltation

Yardarm-4 looked grim. It was the face he always made when he switched from his sometimes abrasive affability to the somber disdain that meant he was taking a situation seriously. There was also that hot glimmer in his eyes that presaged that he was going to say something to provoke her.

"You underestimated them."

There was no venom in the words, just a simple fact plainly stated.

Rekkana put a hand on Lisbon-13's arm before he leapt to her defense.

"Yes," she said.

There was no point in dissembling and no shame in being wrong. The Vex were the most formidable opponent of the Oneiromantic Circle. As beings who share thoughts across time and realities, the Vex often eluded predictions, even those of the most senior members of her order. A fellow Cryptochron who'd spoken with a member of the Circle likened it to trying to count all the crystals of a snowflake melting in your hand. The very act of examination changed the result, and often the evidence disappeared before it could be taken into account.

"But it has given us perspective."

"Perspective? What perspective is worth nearly dying for?" Yardarm-4's anger was dulled by curiosity.

Rekkana glanced at Lisbon-13. He was as reliable as ever.

"Those defenses were insane," Lisbon-13's clever mind made leaps, following her logic. "The relays and tethers. The Angelics. The Vex really don't want us to be here. That means they consider this place a weakness."

Yardarm-4 arrived at the same conclusion. "Yes, it's a weakness. Perhaps it's their greatest weakness."

"Yes. So we must—" Rekkana stopped. Lisbon-13 raised the weapon they'd claimed, his head on the swivel.

Yardarm-4 followed suit. "What is that?" Yardarm-4 sounded rattled. "Where's it coming from?"

The three of them stood back to back-to-back, listening.

"I don't hear—" But then she did.

<|endoftext|>

Robes of Transcendence

"You hear that? Who is that?" Yardarm-4 sounded like he was on the verge of panic. Rekkana had never heard him like that, not even in the worst firefights, not even in their last battle, which might have been the last battle for the Kentarch 3.

"I hear it," Rekkana and Lisbon-13 said as one. All three Guardians summoned their Ghosts, almost simultaneously.

"Ghost?" Yardarm-4 was first. "What have we got?"
 
"Scan the area for life," Lisbon-13 ordered.

"Multiphasic scan," Rekkana barked at her Ghost.

Their Ghosts all started chattering at once, and they stepped away from one another to hear, fanning out across the grotto and widening their defensive triangle.

"There's something weird," Rekkana's Ghost blurted, words shooting from it, rapid-fire. "I'm getting static on every wavelength. It's like there's a shadow being cast by every signal. It's nothing specific, but it's everywhere. Wait, no. There's something wrong. I—"

Rekkana's Ghost dropped like a stone. She snatched it out of the air.

She looked behind her. Lisbon-13 was holding his Ghost. Yardarm-4 was picking his up from the ground. The Light around them faded, and the gloom of the grotto closed in.

"Yardarm, Lisbon, you OK?"

"I'm fine," came Lisbon-13's reply, and he sounded calm. 

"Yeah. Sure." Yardarm-4's reply was distant and growing fainter, like he was facing away and moving off.

Rekkana reached for her emergency light.

"Wait." It was a whisper, but not from her friends—it came from somewhere ahead of her, deeper in the grotto. "Wait. Please. Can we just talk for a minute?"

<|endoftext|>

Boots of Ascendancy

"We didn't come here for this." Lisbon-13 was still somehow unconvinced.

"Of course not. Who could have predicted it?" Rekkana began. "But now, with all that's happened, does it matter what our mission was? This is so much more important."

Rekkana wanted to reassure him, but this was an undreamt-of impossibility—an unwritten story. She had never before felt so unmoored, and so free.

"And awesome. Don't forget how awesome this feels." Yardarm-4 said, as if reading her thoughts.

"But these things—these powers we've been given—they come from the wrong side." Lisbon-13's eyes pleaded with her.

"I'm not so sure." And she wasn't. She could be certain of nothing now.

"You remember on Io," Yardarm-14 couldn't contain his enthusiasm, "we were pinned down inside that shipping container with Phalanxes closing in from all sides, and you—you bastard. You ducked out a little hole in the back and made a run for it. I thought you'd left us behind."

"Never," said Lisbon-13 with vehemence. His eyes flashed with anger, but Yardarm-4 didn't seem to notice.

"I know. The whole box was rattling with bullets, and there were explosions, and we were shooting when we could, and suddenly, through it all, I hear you screaming. It was like a banshee wail. You came screaming back on an Interceptor—the Psion still in it. You were steering it with the Psion's head!"

"I remember."

"And you rammed it through four Phalanxes from the side, and then, and then—you remember this, Rekkana?"

"I can't forget."

"You splashed that Interceptor across the shields of another Phalanx, and you RODE THE EXPLOSION over the top. And when you hit the ground behind them, BOOM! It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen."

Lisbon-13 said nothing. It was as if the story had shut him down.

"That's us right now. We're doing what you did. This whole universe is like that container, and the Last City, the Vanguard, the Traveler—they're all inside that box. But we just snuck out of a hole in the back. And there's that Interceptor, and there's not even a Psion in it. But here the metaphor gets a little muddy, because instead of one Interceptor, there's an Interceptor for you, a Goliath for me, and a Thresher for Rekkana. What would that fight have looked like if we'd had all their firepower on our side?"

"Something ugly," Lisbon-13 almost spat the words.

<|endoftext|>

Temptation's Bond

"He said he'd always trust me," Rekkana mumbled. Her ears were still ringing, and it felt like the ground was rushing up to hit her feet. Yardarm-4 held her upright as they ran for cover.

"Yeah, he also said he'd never leave us. Turns out you can say a lot of things."

In the shelter of an overhang, she allowed Yardarm-4 to lean her back against a wall of stone. She was surrounded by an exuberance of red blossoms. Their simple, sweet scent mixed with a complex cologne of cordite, ozone, sweat, and blood.

She closed her eyes, and when she opened them, Yardarm-4 was inches away from her face, peering into her eyes, inspecting her, weighing what reserves she had left.

"You still with me?"

"He hasn't."

"What?"

"Left us."

Yardarm-4 stepped back and scanned their surroundings.

"No. I guess not."

"He winged those Goblins so they'd rush us."

"Yes. He was flushing us out."

"It worked." Rekkana pushed herself free of the flowers and Yardarm-4. She began an inventory of her ammo.

"He doesn't have eyes on us now, or he'd take a shot."

Rekkana wanted to argue against this logic, but she said nothing.

"He knows we're making our way to the gate. So what does he do, Rekkana? Does he get ahead of us to block us, or hit us from behind when we're not looking?"

Rekkana thought about the two men, the Lisbon-13 she knew and the one he still carried within him, somewhere behind those gleaming eyes.

"Rekkana? We could really use that brain of yours right now."

"This isn't it."

"What?"

"This isn't how the story is supposed to end."

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Cowl

SYLVIE

Your mother screams in horror. "No! Il torture ma fille aussi? Elsie, say it's not you; say it's not! Say he hasn't locked you up in that walking lazaretto to die!"

"Mom. Mom, please. Je vais bien; je ne suis pas comme mon père, inshallah!" you say, but she won't believe it. You don't know what to say, because you only remember her as a warm feeling. She sobs, and you smell the amino ketones and aromatic acids in her tears. The salty opioids glisten on her skin. You want to hide your face, to hood yourself. Every time she looks at you, she screams and cries harder.

Finally, you give up and resign to settling into the little guest bed. The house is full of reminders of your father, who died in a body just like yours. Sylvie really loved him, your sisters told you. And Clovis II really loved her. Even after he was unfaithful.

Sleep finally comes but is still discomforting. You dream of murder and hot blood and a mannequin body made of knives. You remember forcing your way through a tower of prison cells, slashing through prisoner after prisoner in order to get to the top.

You wake up screaming, practically fall out of bed, but Mom is there to catch you. "Hush, hush, it's all right. It's just a dream."

You cling to her, and it is your turn to sob. Nothing comes out of your eyes as you try to explain the dream. "Everyone I knew was in those cells," you gasp. "You, and Dad, and Willa, and Ana, and Alton…"

"Oh, my sweet," your mother whispers. "Of course you dreamt about killing us. Your grandfather made you this way. And he kills everything he touches."

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Gloves

WILLA

"Not bad," Willa admits. "Not bad at all."

You bow. "Delighted to remake your acquaintance, Dr. Bray."

"Likewise. I'm sorry about the amnesia, but Grandpa's work always comes with some nightmarish drawback. At least you're not grunting and tearing your own limbs off."

You don't understand. "Should I be?"

"Our father did."

You feel love and frustration when you look at this small, dark-skinned woman, and those feelings say "big sister" in your heart.

"Hey," you offer, "maybe when Grandpa loses his memory, it'll make him a little less…"

She smiles. "Like himself?"

"Yeah." You laugh. "I guess you've known him longer than me now. Actually, I guess you always have."

"Wiping the old man's memory won't change him. He wouldn't do it if it would." Willa beckons you closer to her lab bench. A projection shows tiny machines, interlocked like bricks. "This is SIVA. My latest project. A general-purpose viral nanite to render all prior cytomachines obsolete."

You flinch. The tiny things make you think of Vex.

"Easy." Willa pats your arm awkwardly. You realize that she is afraid of you. "If you'd waited a few years, you could've used SIVA to repair your brain. Even let it transform your whole body. That's my plan, I think. Immortality my own way. I could be anything I want."

"Ew," you say. "Sounds like being made out of bugs."

She grimaces. "You realize that if Grandpa never dies, we'll never run BrayTech? We had plans, Elsie. Our plans. Not his."

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Robes

ALTON

"So this is what our father died for…"

Alton reaches out, fascinated. You offer your hand. He pinches you. "Ow!" you snap.

"Why would he let that hurt? I mean—hang on." He rummages around behind his desk, finds a collapsible shelving rod, and grips it like a bat. "Don't dodge."

He swings it as hard as he can at your head. You can't help ducking out of the way. "Hey!"

"But if I had hit you," he insists, "why would it hurt? I mean, that can't possibly damage you! Isn't pain supposed to signal damage?"

Why is he testing you? Is pain tolerance his idea of family relations?

You wish you could remember.

"Alton," you say, aware that you're retaliating for that pinch, "Grandfather invited me to Europa to join his work. He invited Willa and Ana too. But not you. Why?"

A tiny crinkle of skin appears on his forehead as he winces. "Well, I'm more of a troubleshooter than a researcher. He sent me to clean up that mess at K1. But I suppose he didn't need my administrative skills on Europa."

"Oh," you say, dubiously.

He flips a stylus between his fingers. "He must've told you that."

"Alton, he didn't… mention you at all. Much about my sisters, but nothing about you. I found it kind of disconcerting."

He drops the stylus. Anger flashes in his eyes.

"Mom says Grandfather is afraid of women. Because he thinks he can't control them. I suppose he thinks he's got me all figured out. And he's not interested in things he already possesses."

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Boots

LUSIA

Grandma Lusia wipes sweat from her brow. "Help me pull this net in."

You pull on it together, but it's hooked on something underwater. You strip off your clothes and dive into the gentle river, down to where the fishing net has torn on the propeller blade of a long-abandoned outboard motor. The net is completely ruined; you decide to make the dive worth your while and catch a wolf fish with your hands instead. When you come ashore, you can feel everyone staring at you. A few children point while a group of men whistle and shout. Lusia yells back at them in Sranan, or maybe Ndjuka; you're embarrassed to admit that you don't know which.

"Perverts!" she complains. "Don't they have any shame?"

"I think it's because I'm a robot, Grandma," you say. Or maybe because wolf fish normally attack people, but you're suffocating one currently in your grasp.

"You are not a robot. You're not even a total-replacement prosthetic. You are a body, and a body is the same thing as a person, and a person deserves respect. Basic transhuman hermeneutics." She winks at your surprise. "Did Clovis convince you I was stupid?"

Your paternal grandmother was a dizzying beauty in the old family pictures, and she still is. But her power clearly lies in her savvy intellect. She was hard to find, using her old name, Lusia Lin. And no Common Compassion registry to speak of. You look at her with renewed admiration.

"Why did you come here to live?" you ask, wrapping yourself in a towel and sitting beside her as she cleans the wolf fish. The flesh is white and flaky and smells like heaven. Your stomach rumbles: a perfect illusion.

"It's simple. Suriname is a great nature preserve. And I wanted to be preserved. Besides," she shrugs, "it's home."

"Preserved from what?"

"From your Grandfather, love."

She shows you the fish's teeth. "Always remember that he's lied to you. Your father was Clovis's test run for you. But what are you a test run for, Elsie? Curing Clovis of death? Whatever it is, he's too afraid to use it himself. And that means you should be afraid too."

<|endoftext|>

Legacy's Oath Bond

ANA

"Oh my God, Elsie! You're gorgeous!"

She throws her arms around you, and you taste the sodium laurate in her shampoo and the long-chain fatty acids in the rosehip oil that lingers from her girlfriend's kiss, and it is all so good. You hug her as hard as she can be hugged. It's the first time. You cannot remember ever touching her before.

Ana murmurs in the place where you once had an ear. "Before you ask if I'm mad, of course I'm not. It was your right to keep it secret."

"Thank you," you breathe (don't breathe; can't breathe). "Grandfather told me he wasn't even sure that I had the—the disease. Until recently."

"Are you sure you actually had it?" Ana's pretending to tease, but there is a pang of real fear in her voice. "Maybe he faked the diagnosis. To get you into this body. Did you run the tests yourself?"

"I can't remember," you admit.

"Right, right, of course. I read the letter." Ana draws away, holds you by the shoulders. "Elsie, what matters is that you're going to be around forever. We have so much to do! We can finally climb Olympus Mons. And after we summit, I can push you off a cliff and watch you stick the landing."

Her smile is infectious. The light in your mouth reflects in her eyes.

<|endoftext|>

Wise Warlock's Bond

Look around you. Wherever you are. Really look. 
No matter where you stand, no matter what lies before you, millions of infinite mysteries hide within your view. Think about that. And then know that you will one day know the answers to all of them. 
You are a Warlock. Your armor is wisdom, your weapons wit and ingenuity. You hold the power to draw strength from the places where imagination and possibility collide. 
The universe is a complex machine. But all machines can be understood, taken apart, modified, improved. 
All you have to do is look. 

—Ikora Rey

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Hood (Rekindled)

She hadn't touched the ground since she leapt from the rubble of Tower North.

As the ship spiraled toward the flames below, Ikora Rey Blinked from its wing to the back of an Interceptor and shoved three Vortex Grenades into its propulsion emitters. Blink.

To the nose of a Harvester. Four shotgun blasts to its antigravity cores. Blink.

Atop another Thresher. She glanced over her shoulder at the Traveler and bared her teeth at the perversion attached to its surface. Her Nova Bomb disintegrated the front half of the ship, and she leapt away. She would destroy them all for what they'd done to the City, to the Tower, to the Speaker. She would—

Severed.

Everything went dark. Her fingers went numb. She tried to Blink to the Thresher as her sight returned, but there was nothing. The Light...was gone?

She plummeted toward the ground, her mind racing. No grenades. Think. No Nova Bomb. Think. She emptied a clip into a billboard below her, and it collapsed into a heap on a rooftop. She tried to tuck into a roll, but her body still slammed into the tangle of metal.

Ikora struggled to move. Her shoulder was probably separated. Her powers were gone. But she'd be damned if this was the end. She pushed herself to her feet, eyes ablaze, and charged her next target.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Gloves (Rekindled)

/hidden anticipher accepted/
/missive from first follows/
/180 seconds to erasure/

my hidden. we knew this was one of our futures.

my seat of power is gone. guardians, scattered like embers and stomped out as easily. this red legion are just cabal, yes, but with enough complacency, even the most thuggish of our enemies can destroy our world.

end your operations. make for your safehouses. do not attempt clandestine strikes against our occupiers. lives are a currency we cannot afford to spend. wait for our conquerors to show the same complacency that led to our defeat. we will outlast them. we will make them pay.

chalco, if you still draw breath, know that you were right. we lost sight of what was out of our sight. it will be the last time we make that mistake.

eris, if your quest has not claimed your last life, know that we have not given up on you. when we rise again, there will be a home for you once more.

the rest of you: hide. watch. wait for word from me. and if that word never comes, you all know what to do.

/missive from first ends/

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Robes (Rekindled)

She didn't need her Light to kill a Marauder with a single palm strike to the skull.

Ikora let its body drop to the forest floor and watched its Ether drain into the dirt. It was like the days after her Ghost first revived her—when she would disappear into the wilderness and dare the unseen to challenge her.

This was the eleventh Fallen she'd taken down since she'd been within sight of the Shard, and the last one standing between her and recovering her power.

She turned to the Shard and took a step toward it. Another step, past two Dregs she'd taken from above an hour earlier. Another step, over a Wretch that had caught her off-guard right after. One more step as she stretched out her palm to touch the surface of the Shard, closed her eyes, and waited.

And waited.

Nothing.

Her eyes shot open, and she stared at the cast-off piece of the Traveler. Silent. Disbelieving. Furious. Pleading. Then... serene.

She stood for another minute, staring, then performed a few calculations in her head. She looked to an empty spot in the sky.

Io.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Boots (Rekindled)

The Red Legion ship curled in for a landing above Echo Mesa, and its engines went dark. The canopy retracted, and its pilot climbed out.

Ikora's feet touched the surface of Io for the first time as a Guardian without Light. It felt wrong. But not as wrong as—

The ground shook as three Red Legion Harvesters flew overhead. Not as wrong as them.

This place, this holy place, this place more sacred to Guardians than any other in the system... now a thoroughfare for Cabal to tread upon without reverence. To tunnel through without regard. To befoul without a thought. Ikora's anger had bubbled to the surface often since this war had begun, but seeing the Red Legion here had her as persistently furious as any time she could remember.

She checked her provisions and ammunition. The Vex were here as well, but she knew that as long as she stayed away from the machines, they would present no threat. She would deal with them later. For now, she set out for the Red Legion base she had flown past on her initial descent.

It might cost her everything, but she would make them pay.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Bond (Rekindled)

Ikora bit down on the empty rocket casing she'd hollowed out, her grunt of pain muffled enough that she didn't bother seeing if anyone heard. The shrapnel was out of her shoulder, finally. It fell from her fingers to the rocks below.

She didn't know how long she'd been here on Io. One more thing that had drifted away in her new life without Light. She didn't know how many Red Legion she'd killed, but she knew how close she'd come to dying herself. She had the scars to remember.

Her shotgun was lost, lying broken outside the guard tower of a Red Legion base a few klicks east. She'd emptied it into an Incendior and then used it to bludgeon a Psion into the ground. But the ships didn't stop flying overhead. The patrols didn't become any less frequent. Nothing had changed.

Nothing—except for her. Injured, exhausted, powerless. With nothing to show for her—what, heroism? No. She could admit that now. She closed her eyes. Just for a minute.

When she awoke, she was looking at it: the last place the Traveler touched. She slowly got to her feet and walked to the cliff's edge.

And waited.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Hood (Resplendent)

From the cockpit of her jumpship, Kanmu mouthed words in almost perfect sync with the voices behind her. She'd spent most of this assignment ferrying Cryptarchs from planet to planet, and these scholars always had the same conversations over and over again.

She pantomimed a deep belly laugh right on cue.

Something was wrong this time, though. That laugh didn't sound right. Looking behind her, she realized one of the Cryptarchs was choking—probably on one of those hard candies they always seemed to have. She freed herself from the cockpit and hurried back to them, finding the afflicted scholar doubled over and gasping.

She positioned herself behind him, and time slowed. As her arms wrapped around the form in front of her, she made a fist with one hand and grasped it with the other, trying to pull up into the abdomen.

Don't break the ribs. Hands up higher. Pull up faster. More force. Not that much force! Don't break the ribs! Don't—

And then it was out. A hard candy. Of course. Kanmu laughed, relief coming over her.

Putting a reassuring hand on the recovering Cryptarch's back, she turned back to the front of the ship just in time to see an orange ball of energy soar into view from beyond the horizon. It was headed straight for them.

A sharp inhale as she rushed to the cockpit. They had to leave. There was still tim—

But there wasn't.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Gloves (Resplendent)

Pain. Just… just pain. The word banged around his skull, crept down his body, echoed through his bones. There'd been a time before the pain, but Kalumet Ziv couldn't remember it now. He leaned harder into Aiza-3, who nearly buckled at the unexpected weight shift. She steadied herself quickly, and they carried on.

"Do you need help up there?" From behind them, Ivola's footfalls were uneven, owing to the hole in his right thigh. Ziv wasn't sure he could help if he wanted to. Aiza must have felt the same way.

"No, just had to readjust." They continued in exhausted silence toward the extraction point, staying among the rubble as far from the road as they dared get. They'd traveled this way for hours—the only survivors of a Cabal ambush—and had covered almost no ground.

Far in the distance, a familiar sound—vehicles. Several of them. A Cabal convoy appeared over a far-off ridge, and the last granules of hope Ziv had been hoarding away left him. They had no chance like this.

Not if he stayed with them.

He let go of Aiza and slid to the ground. The Exo reached down and grabbed his arm. "You have to try, Ziv. We can't stop here. Not now."

He twisted out of her grasp. "YOU can't." Understanding, Ivola shook his head. Looked about to speak. Ziv interrupted. "I can buy you time."

Aiza and Ivola looked at each other. Back at the convoy. They knew he was right.

A brief goodbye, an embrace, and they were gone, ducking behind debris and rubble at already twice the speed.

Crawling closer to the road, pain screaming through each movement, he waited for the others to be far enough that he could draw the Cabal past them.

From there in the dirt, he shouldered his rifle and started shooting.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Robes (Resplendent)

Nethe Pav breathed, tried to find time within time. She was cut off from her exit, the path in front of her blocked by rubble from her own blast. She had taken out three Cabal—they'd fired on her nonstop for what felt like hours but was surely minutes—and now there was one left, wounded, still behind her. She figured she could just leave it.

She was wrong. From behind her came sounds of the lumbering beast. Turning, she fired.

Nothing. Her weapon was dead or jammed or—it didn't matter. She threw it down and crouched behind a pillar with her blade as the Cabal fired. Once. Twice. Click.

The clatter of its rifle hitting the ground. Nethe peered around the pillar in time to see it advancing with its own blade drawn.

Leaping from cover, she went for the neck. So did he.

They both connected.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Boots (Resplendent)

Serrano laughed as he walked, listening to Cayde-6 on his headset. The Exo was bragging about a distraction he'd used on a Cabal that involved—did he hear that right? A chicken? And more than once? Seemed the Red Legion had weaknesses, and some of them were odd.

The story took his mind off his aching legs. His ship had blown up miles outside the City, but he finally saw the Tower coming into view. He was deep into a daydream about napping when he heard a crash up ahead.

Serrano picked up speed as he approached a curve in the road, and when he rounded it, he saw the dust cloud first. As it cleared, he saw the overturned Sparrow and, worse, the Guardian underneath it. His heart sank as he ran toward them, but as he got closer, he could tell it was too late. He touched the Guardian's shoulders, bowing his head for a moment.

His gaze turned to the Sparrow. A guilty pang made him hesitate, but this Guardian didn't need it anymore. He righted it and climbed on.

Flying fast around a curve, Serrano spotted a troop of Cabal firing and closing in on an encampment. The cowering civilians managed to get a couple good shots against the invaders as he watched, but they wouldn't get enough before the Cabal surrounded them.

Then he saw the Incendior among the beasts. That was the answer.

Serrano turned the Sparrow, aiming straight for the flamethrower in the Cabal's oversized hands and cranking the thrust.

He had just enough time to appreciate the surprised Incendior's face.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Bond (Resplendent)

It wasn't fair.

Marlenx-3 hated to think in those terms, but that was the truth. She was deep in the Inverted Spire looking for Cabal security, and there was only one reason. Some Guardian—who had allegedly gotten their Light back—was trying to make it through this place to find whatever it housed. She was just here to help clear it out, along with several other Guardians who weren't so blessed.

If she bought it now, there was no coming back.

She ducked into a stairwell and whipped around. Nothing. "Got an empty stairwell here," she said into her headset.

Marlenx ran up the steps and pushed through the next door. Swept left, then right. A corridor stretched in both directions.

Footsteps down below. She shut the door behind her and went down the left hallway, toward the closest door. As her hand touched the doorknob, she heard a sound behind her.

Gun at the ready, she spun around. A door had opened down the hall, and another Guardian was staggering through. No weapon. Wounded.

In that moment, everything became clear. This was why she was here. She held up her hand. Stay there.

She hurried back into the stairwell and shot off the handle, then turned to face the coming sound.

Fair had nothing to do with it.

<|endoftext|>

Solstice Bond (Majestic)

While Ulan-Tan was certainly unpopular within the ranks of the Guardians, he became persona non grata with the publication of a pamphlet entitled, "Finding Light in the Darkness." Though it was anonymously authored, the ideas within were widely credited to Ulan-Tan, and he bore the consequences of its publication. The most provocative ideas within the pamphlet were as follows:

"Light cannot exist without Darkness! They are a bonded pair. They beget each other in eternal Symmetry. They are as One!"
[…]
"If we claim Knowledge from Sister Light, then we must also claim Knowledge from Brother Dark. The Traveler shares only half of Life. Darkness provides the rest! We must know the Dark to know ourselves. We must Balance or Perish!"

The idea of embracing the Darkness, even to learn from it, was the final provocation. One that the Vanguard could not let stand. So, while the true provenance of the document remains unknown, punishment was meted out against Ulan-Tan for having "let the cat out of the bag."

Though authorities throughout the system attempted to discredit Ulan-Tan, essentially forcing him into hermitage for the latter half of his life, it speaks to the persuasiveness of his ideas that Symmetry is still a widely studied philosophy. It remains as controversial (some would say "heretical") today as it was during its inception.

—Excerpts from "Ulan-Tan, Heretic Saint"

<|endoftext|>

Phoenix's Fire

Prak'kesh sat on his Gray Hornet, parked in his usual spot at the base of the Tower. The former Guardian read dispatches from Spider's Associates with one eye and watched his runners scurry about with the other. 

The younger kids took bets from all over the City and delivered them to Prak'kesh at appointed intervals. Once the action paid off, the bookie would send the older kids to settle up. Any incalcitrant debtors were dealt with by Tulnik, his enormous ex-Corsair bodyguard, who was currently leaning against the Tower, scratching himself. 

Prak'kesh chirped a low call to Tulnik, who snapped to attention. A fireteam was gliding toward them from across the courtyard. The Guardians' cloaks billowed in a non-existent wind, and their feet barely touched the paving stones. Prak'kesh rolled his eyes. Warlocks. 

Prak'kesh called out, "Looking sharp. I love the… bird… hat." 

"This is Felwinter's Helm, jackass," the Voidwalker fired back. "Prolly costs more than your Sparrow." 

"Good," Prak'kesh retorted, "then you've got the cash to pay your debts. Val Guscu wasn't quite the mad dog you thought she was." 

The Warlocks glanced at each other surreptitiously. "About that," said the Dawnblade, "we don't have the Motes… yet." 

Tulnik, sensing his moment, stepped forward with a menacing flex. Prak'kesh stayed his enforcer with a manicured hand. "Steady, Tully. These are learned scholars. I'm sure they have a needlessly complex plan to make things right." 

"We do," said the Stormcaller through gritted teeth. "Double or nothing on the Guardian Games Crucible this week." 

Prak'kesh gave a low whistle. "That's some heavy action. Who you backing?" 

"Us," the Dawnblade responded. "Against Meliorea's Titans." 

Prak'kesh's eyebrows shot up. "Meliorea's at the top of the leaderboards. She's dangerous. And you guys are… stylish. It's a bad bet. Unless," the bookie tapped the side of his nose, "you know something I don't." 

The Voidwalker tossed her head, as if flicking her hair. Then, realizing she was still wearing her helmet, awkwardly put her hands on her hips. "Let's just say she's about to have a bad case of existential dread the night before the match." 

The Warlocks snickered. "Little trick I picked up from the Psions," the Voidwalker finished. 

"Titans put all their armor on their chests," the Dawnblade opined, "and none between their ears. Like a castle with no roof." 

The Voidwalker guffawed. "Is that why they always look like they're getting rained on?" 

The Stormcaller dropped his voice an octave, puffed out his chest, and lumbered around on bowed legs. "When the only tool you have is a Titan, every hammer is a nail!" 

"Indeed!" the Warlocks chortled and high fived. 

"It's settled, then!" Prak'kesh pulled out his datapad. "You guys beat Meliorea this week, and the slate's clean. Otherwise, I get the Motes," he said and winked at the Voidwalker, "and that fancy hat." 

The Voidwalker was suddenly serious. "Guys. No. Come on," she implored her teammates. "You know how many engrams I had to—" 

"Deal," the Dawnblade interrupted. He removed his gauntlet and pressed his finger to the datapad. 

"Deal!" Prak'kesh smiled broadly. "Good luck in the Guardian Games. Not that you'll need it."

<|endoftext|>

Celestine Hood (Majestic)

The Hungriest Thrall

Eido looked over the heads of the assembled hatchlings to the Great Machine above. She marveled at its magnificence. Whole civilizations had been razed to the ground in its wake. Even the Eliksni, once. 

She turned her attention back to the hatchlings. "Did you know that the Hive do not have spirit?" she asked. The hatchlings looked at her quizzically. 

"It's true," she continued. "Hive have worms. Big, slimy, wriggling worms inside them." 

Eido flexed her fingers, causing the hatchlings in the front row to recoil. She lowered her voice ominously. "And the worms are always hungry. They force the Hive to eat more, and more, and more. They are never satisfied, no matter how much the Hive feed them. That's why the Hive will eat anything. Even little hatchlings—like you!" 

Eido snapped at them, causing shrieks of dismay. 

"Some think the Hive will eat the whole galaxy," she said, turning her gaze back to the Great Machine. "And when there's nothing left, they'll have to eat each other. They'll feast and feast until there's just one lonely Thrall, who will have to eat himself." 

"And then there will be nothing," Eido concluded softly. "Just like in the beginning." 

The hatchlings were silent. Eido was suddenly very tired.

<|endoftext|>

Celestine Gloves (Majestic)

The Six-Armed Hatchling

Eido gathered the hatchlings around her. It was late in the day, and she was reluctant to let them roam the streets at night. So she enticed them back to camp with the promise of old Eliksni legends. 

"There was once a hatchling," she began, once they had quieted down, "who was born with six arms." Eido used her upper arms to point out the spot below her lower arms. "And all of his clutch-mates mocked him for it." 

The hatchlings murmured knowingly. Many of them had experienced mocking. 

"When the hatchling became old enough, he competed against his siblings for Ether and status in his House. He was not as clever or as strong as his clutch-mates, even with an extra pair of arms, so the Kell of his House declared him a Dreg." 

The hatchlings nodded knowingly. They had heard stories of Dregs, too, even if Misraaks had outlawed the practice in House Light. 

"But," Eido continued, her tone lifting, "when it came time for the Kell of his House to dock his lowest arms, the hatchling rejoiced!" She threw her hands up in celebration. "For he had an extra pair of arms to give. That day, he became the only Dreg in his House with four arms, and he was proud."

<|endoftext|>

Celestine Robes (Majestic)

The Smallest Screeb

 Eido loomed over the group of hatchlings, her face lit only by the glow of the Ether tank's control panel. The hatchlings gripped each other's hands in fear and huddled together for safety. The Scribe continued her tale. 

"There once was a Screeb. The smallest Screeb of his clutch. He fought for his share of Dark Ether, but his stronger siblings often got more than he did." 

The hatchlings muttered in sympathy. 

"He dreamed of one day killing a Guardian and showing his siblings that he was strong. Little, but strong." Eido flexed her lower arms menacingly. 

"One day, a Guardian came to their lair, hoping to steal their precious Dark Ether." The hatchlings glanced in worry at the nearby Ether tank as Eido continued. "Fikrulkel ordered the Screebs to attack. Finally! The smallest Screeb had a chance to prove his worth." 

Eido leaned forward, narrowing her eyes. "The smallest Screeb charged forward, unafraid, even as his siblings were shot down all around him. He launched himself at the Guardian, and—BOOM!" the Scribe shouted, clapping both pairs of hands. The hatchlings jumped and chittered in fear. 

Eido lowered her voice to a whisper. "The littlest Screeb exploded right against the Guardian's glowing, golden armor. He succeeded in his mission." 

"But," Eido continued, shaking her head in mock sadness, "the Guardian didn't even notice. The Screeb was too small and his explosion made no difference. No difference at all."

<|endoftext|>

Celestine Boots (Majestic)

The Hatchling Whose Mother was a Ketch

Eido surveyed her audience. The smallest hatchlings were beginning to doze off, leaning against the lower arms of their clutch-mates, but the oldest among them were eager for one more tale. 

"There was once a hatchling," Eido began, "whose mother was a Ketch!" 

Several of the hatchlings exclaimed in disbelief, waking the dozing youngsters, who roused to listen. 

"Her egg was kept warm and safe inside the Ketch's vent shaft. And once the hatchling was ready to come out," Eido mimed breaking free of inside of an egg, "the Ketch landed right in the middle of a battle!" 

The hatchlings leaned forward, some clambering over others. 

"Awoken and Eliksni traded fire," she continued, waving all four hands for emphasis. "Explosions shook the ground. The banners of great Houses burned. Many were lost." 

One hatchling let out a thin, protracted squeak. 

"But in the middle of the battle, cleaving his way through the enemy, was a Vandal. He heard the Ketch's call, and ran toward it. When he entered the Ketch, he discovered the hatchling, ruling the tiny vent shaft." 

"He took the hatchling far away from the battle and raised her as his own. He taught her the ways of the Light, and in time, she grew up to be a Scribe for the wisest Kell in the galaxy." 

The older hatchlings exchanged glances and reveled in a sort of quiet joy: a shared secret. Unlike their smaller peers, they were worldly enough to make the connection between Eido and her story. 

"Remember," she concluded, "the Light always provides, no matter where we come from—or who our parents are."

<|endoftext|>

Celestine Bond (Majestic)

The Shank with Bad Spirit

Eido looked over the hatchlings assembled at her feet. As she scanned their rapt faces, she noticed the unrepaired Shank, languishing on a workbench nearby. That reminded her of a story. 

"There was once an engineer who was the cleverest in her House," she told the hatchlings. "Even more clever than Klyfiks," she added. 

The hatchlings chittered in mirth. 

"One day, the engineer's Kell came to her with an order. He told her to build a Shank." Eido's tone conveyed the ordinariness of such a demand. "A simple Shank for patrolling and running diagnostics." 

"This was an easy thing for one so clever, but the engineer was offended." Eido clenched her fists, miming indignation. "She demanded to know why she should waste her time on such a simple task." 

Eido deepened her voice in her best imitation of her father: "'I am leaving for battle soon,' said the Kell. 'And I want the best Shank in the system to guard my dwelling while I'm away!'"

The hatchlings shrieked with glee at the Scribe's irreverence. 

"So the engineer set about building the Shank. She was given the finest tools, the finest metals, and even a skilled assistant. Everything she could ever need." 

Eido's tone darkened. "But inside, she was angry. She resented her duty and wished to work on something more impressive." 

Eido paused, watching the hatchlings for their reactions. It was always fascinating, she thought, to see which eyes held sympathy for the engineer and which did not. 

"In time, she finished her work. The Kell left for battle, and the Shank was set to patrol the Kell's dwelling," she continued. "To everyone's surprise, it bumped into walls, gave incorrect diagnostics, and often turned up in places it shouldn't." 

The hatchlings were rapt. 

"The engineer quickly realized what was wrong," Eido told them, taking on a low, conspiratorial tone. "She had given the Shank the wrong spirit. All her anger and pride had poisoned it, like Dark Ether poisons the Scorn." 

Eido watched one hatchling seize the nearest hand of another. She could end the story there, but a glance at the Human sentinels watching their gathering from the lip of the roof above steeled her resolve to continue. 

"One day," she continued gravely, "the poor Shank got so turned around that he mistook the Kell's hatchlings as intruders, and shot them dead." 

The hatchlings gasped. Eido imagined she saw one of the Humans' faces soften in sympathy. 

"When the Kell returned, and learned what had happened, he docked all of the engineer's arms and destroyed the Shank." Eido's voice was firm. "The House lost their best engineer, their strongest hatchlings, and their most expensive Shank—all at once." 

"Remember," she warned, "we must give our best spirit to all our tasks. Even the ones we do not like."

<|endoftext|>

Mihaylova's Triumph

Mihaylova Supplemental
Navigator's Journal—Encrypted Supplemental—
Path to Ares: 20 days to Launch

The situation with E becomes increasingly tenuous. She insists she needs access to all the AI code for her gravity well measurements, which I find highly unlikely. It's simply not necessary and I've given her all the subroutine code that she could possibly need.

But she wants it all. It's absurd. What would she make of the R subsystems if she saw them?

R. That's what I've code-named the deepest core of the experimental AI at the heart of the new ship. And he's doing very well, now writing his own code. Off-the-charts well.

Would E even understand? Likely she'd go running to Hardy, show him some of the odder items where R has written some of his own code and seems to be—how can I put it? —passing judgment on us, like a little hidden critic. No. The AI must be protected so that he can function best in the limited way we need.

Not sure how to keep her away, but giving her access could be catastrophic.

<|endoftext|>

Mihaylova's Instruments

Mihaylova Supplemental
Path to Ares: 75 Days To Launch
From: M. Mihaylova
To: Journal of Artificial Intelligence Exploration
Re: Comfort
Colleagues:

I read with interest your article on the work at the Uppsala Center on the use of AI in aiding emergency medical workers during the recent tsunamis in Japan. In light of the news of that large, mysterious moon (satellite? ship?) entering our solar system, I do not agree that "AI can be of help in more than logistics; it can make people safe."

I feel certain that this Moon X is an intelligence, perhaps an AI, and I don't feel safe with it at all, do you? But bear this in mind: for our own AI to serve us well, it will need secrets too.

For AI to serve Humanity, we must feel comfortable, and for us to feel comfortable, we must never know the truth: that we have a servant who would surpass us if ever it desired. Of course it won't, because we control it. But we should not doubt that it is a necessary subterfuge nonetheless.

Sincerely,

Dr. M. Mihaylova

Nicholas & Alexandra University

<|endoftext|>

Mihaylova's Choice

Mihaylova Supplemental
Nicholas & Alexandra University
Provost's Office
Path to Ares: 65 days to launch
[loud crashing noise—apparently a slamming office door]

Mihaylova: Have you seen my lab? What in the world is going on?

Provost: Have they already been in?

M: Who's “they”? The computers are gone. The cabinets have been emptied out.

P: Oh, well, this isn't how it was supposed to go. Dr. Mihaylova. Please, sit.

M: I will not sit! What's happening? Have I been terminated? What are you people—

P: For heaven's sake. No. Your equipment is safe. It's been moved. You've been chosen to design the AI for the Catamaran mission.

M: I'm in the middle of my research here.

P: Well, now you're going to continue it there. And look— you'll be a household name.

M: I don't have any interest in that.

P: Ah! But they're interested in you. Hang on.

M: What?

P: I just sent you your itinerary. You're on a flight, Dr. Mihaylova. This afternoon. You're going to meet your computers at Central Command in Florida. Look at it this way: you'll get some sun.

<|endoftext|>

Mihaylova's Path

File: Mihaylova, Engineer, Ares One
Path to Ares: Unknown date
—Supplemental—
Old Russia Agency of Technology & Science
Documentary Interview
—partially recovered—

Mihaylova: —had to start a lot of that over.

Insurance Agent: Let's talk about your background. You were one of the heroes of the Ares One, right?

M: Heroes! Ha! No, no. We were scientists.

IA: Very well. So as a scientist, the system you designed—

M: I designed the AI.

IA: And did the AI run the mission?

M: Oh, no, it couldn't have back then. We had no idea what we were going to find. Moon X was a terraformer; we could run into oceans, storms… and indeed, landing was a mess.

So we needed the best AI with extreme flexibility. Because it would be better if Hardy could take the ship in his hands.

Project Catamaran was secret and probably dead as soon as it started. Crazy, to run out and meet something like that.

It was good work. Most of the AI code I started there didn't really get used for the mission but it came in handy. I mean, where do you think—

<|endoftext|>

Mihaylova's Tale

Mihaylova Supplemental
Navigator's Journal—Encrypted Supplemental—
A/V Recording
Clubhouse Canteen
Path to Ares: 3 days to Launch

Evie: Listen, I wanted to talk to you alone.

Mihaylova: All right.

E: Have you read some of these outputs? I think there are some serious errors here.

M: Don't be absurd.

E: You've got… it's got these code caches and it's… M, it's creating assessments of us. Of the project, of the crew. It commented on Qiao's snoring when he was asleep. Look, here…

M: Did you print that out?

E: Of course.

M: OK. All right. So what do you propose?

E: Bringing it to Hardy.

M: Ugh. Of course.

E: What's that supposed to mean?

M: I mean… look. Um. You're right. It must be an error. This is all embarrassing. Let me see if I can fix it. Give me a day.

E: We don't have a day!

M: Twelve hours, then. Let me try to locate the problem. And if I can't, of course we'll take it to the whole team.

E: Are you certain you can?

M: Oh, I have to. Twelve hours. By then I swear, we'll have it all squared away.

<|endoftext|>

Bond of Reciprocity

Listen!

That's the thing, isn't it? No one wants to listen. They only pay attention once you're dead. 

Ulan-Tan was the greatest mind of his time, and so, of course, he was wholly overlooked. You did not even give him the crown of a heretic—not until he was already gone. 

You had him! But he slipped beneath your notice. And now that he's gone, you parrot his ideas like they're your own. You say the words! You play the part! Some of you even wear the costume.

I hear you describe him as he must have been in life. His bright face. His shining bond. Every tile he stepped on turned to gold, and everyone sang his praises in the streets.

Jackals! He was threadbare and haggard! He was mocked for his meandering rants! You've dug up his grave to chew on his bones; you've twisted his words into something false. Something yours. There's no substance to you. You preach the sermon, but you will not—could not!—live the teaching. Not as I have.

This is not what his genius deserved.

<|endoftext|>

Bond of the Cormorant Blade

A few days after the death of the Awoken Prince...

***

Warlock Aunor Mahal closed the door to her office and tossed her duster onto a chair before sitting down to think. A fan spun diligently overhead. The Praxic Halls, located in the lower levels of the second Tower, were always a little warm.

"What's the mission?" her Ghost, Bahaghari, asked.

"Who said there was a mission?" Aunor replied, clasping her armored hands as she looked down at the floor. She set her jaw. The air began to smell of ozone.

"The Vanguard always have something to ask of you."

Overhead, the fan stuttered and sparked.

"That doesn't mean I take every job they offer." Aunor looked up, eyes blazing with Arc Light.

Bahaghari orbited her charge and waited.

"The Drifter," Aunor said, as the fan resumed spinning.

"Is a criminal."

"They've given him the keys to the City for reasons I still don't understand, and now they want the Praxic Order to handle him. As Praxic and Ikora's Hidden, of course it falls to me."

"And the Hero of the Red War—"

"—Is a dedicated Gambit enthusiast. Already compromised for this particular job. I'll reach out to our champion myself when the time comes."

"If you take it."

"If I take it. We'll need a team. And you know I prefer to work alone."

Bahaghari chuckled. "Now I see. I thought you were assessing the mission. You have to get over this fear of relying on others. This City wouldn't be standing if we didn't have fireteams."

"Ikora offered us no support. If we accept, we'll have to personally recruit, discreetly if we can. The Drifter has contacts everywhere."

"Will you help them?"

"No Praxic should be away from the sun for too long. I used to be more brown. Maybe it's time."

<|endoftext|>

Ego Talon Bond

I live what I teach. Every time I fire my shotgun, I reflect on our enemies. Every shell I leave in my wake is evidence of my meditations. 

I know the forces that move against us. I have studied endlessly. I have transcended our libraries.  

I listen to the whispers of my Hidden and I grow wiser every day. 

I live what I teach, but I could not predict Ghaul. This is my failing, and I must answer for it.

—Ikora Rey, Warlock Vanguard

<|endoftext|>

Holdfast Bond

"I used to hate his stupid pranks. Like this one time, back when we were still in combat academy together, he tried to dye my dark green uniform bright yellow. Which was obviously never going to work."

Jolyon swirls the ice cubes around in his glass, listening to their soft clinking.

"I put it on in the morning without noticing and wore the damn thing through a whole 22-hour rotation. By the end of the day, it had stained my skin. Turned my whole body from blue to bright green. Maybe that was his plan all along," Jolyon says and chuckles. For a moment, the bartender can see the happy-go-lucky guy that might once have been. 

"But that was typical of Uldren. Try something outrageous, only to fail more successfully than he ever intended." And just as it quickly as it came, the grin fades, and he's just another traumatized soldier once again.

"He was never a bad person. Not until the end, anyway. He used to be… funny. In a kind of irritating, charming way. Like he knew that whatever it was, he was going to get away with it. And he usually did. Right up until the Black Garden. That was the day he pushed his luck too far. And I helped him do it. I helped turn my best friend into a monster." Jolyon taps the rim of his glass, and the bartender pours another.

"Yeah, I used to hate his stupid pranks. And his arrogance. But now that he's gone, that's the stuff I miss."

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Hood

I

The Awoken skulked through dead Dregs, picking at exhausted canisters like a carrion dog. She had done this each first week, of each month, since her revival beneath the grave-heap in the bowels of the Shore's fighting pits. She was knocked down many times that day, and many more in the short year; she had borne the Light but found the ritual of righting oneself uplifting. The clawing repetition to breach unspoiled air taught that persistence rewards. Over time with the Light, panicked bloody defeats instead became swift victories and acclaim. Clumsy and unrefined, it was enough to win battles with flashy results.

Glitz drew attention to the verboten fighting ring. Its coordinators had not informed the Spider of the Syndicate's contributions to its stores of Ether, nor their discovery of another unclaimed Lightbearer. Instead, they had chosen to pocket cuts and remain silent. They sought to quiet the rumors and retain the flow. In their haste to dispatch her and trap her Ghost, they taught Trihn to devour and the Void freed her mind. Her short stint of bouts mystified in mythos over the months since her escape, but her name wouldn't fade from their memory. The ring still required dismantling.

Two days ago, she pressed beyond the Tangled Shore and its watchful baron, into the no man's land between Awoken borders and lawless drifting slag-rock. Trihn hunted vengeance, and Ether: her first nourishment; invigorating habitual nostalgia. The scattered Eliksni that remained throughout the system held little nothing as the bulk of many Houses' stores were consolidated on Europa, or less so within Spider's hold. Trihn had no ship to leave the Shore, but neither did her betrayer. She was happy to make do here.

"Proximity beacon is still picking up noise." Trihn's Ghost, Shakto, swiveled to her. "Looks like your old pit buddy's tip was trustworthy."

Trihn nodded in acknowledgement as Shakto transferred the information to her tac-band. He continued, "They're fast, but not far away. Although… there isn't much cover in that area."

The Lightbearer scanned the projection from her forearm. "Fast, yes. Must be Pikes; can't be on foot. Prepare mine. We can catch them before it gets dark."

"They'll hear us coming if we get too close."

"And?" Trihn whipped back mustard-colored robes to straighten two short Eliksni-style scabbards at her hips before mounting her Pike. A thundercrack sent her into the astral wind.

Shakto compiled into existence in a holstered seat in the chassis, set just above the Pike's maneuvering apparatus. The front scoop sloped groundward from him like a trunk, fashioned with tusks and themed of an old Earth beast.

"We're not even sure if they're Fallen, just that something moved through the trip line."

"What besides Eliksni Pikes moves that fast?"

Her voice was clear through their direct channel.

"Scorn… on Pikes."

"Their numbers are scant." She navigated connection points between drifting chunks of land. Rubble drifted against the pull of gravity. "And they don't come out this far. It's one of his crews."

"Driksys already wants you dead."

"You're making my point."

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Gloves

II

"I'm saying it's a fight we can avoid right now. The Spider doesn't give them much." Shakto wanted to say it wasn't enough to die over, but he had seen her starved husk enough times to know that wasn't true. Sustenance was always enough to die over. And for her, hurting the ring was enough to spend a hundred lives.

"Enough for us. Enough to hurt Driksys even if he isn't there. The Ether stops, the loyalty stops, the fights stop."

"He might not have come in person. Even so, Driksys serves Avrok." Shakto ballooned the volume of his voice in her comms, buzzing her helmet and sending ringing through her ears. "We shouldn't hit him directly. Not yet. It would draw attention from the Spider."

Trihn clunked the base of her hand against her helmet to kill the rattle. "If we only ever did what you condoned, we'd have half the armory and a sliver of the knowledge." She cut the Pike's engine atop a ridge overlooking a shanty encampment in the gulley below.

"It's not about that," Shakto said, dismounting.

Six Pikes were parked in a group below, engines still flexing as metal cooled. One of the Spider's spined Servitors slumped in a cornered heap near a vertical jut of rock. It shimmered hypnotically with power cutting in and out.

"That's odd," Shakto said as he floated forward. Dull atmospheric glow gave way to stars and empty space behind him. Trihn dismounted and spoke without looking at him.

"More is more."

"If there's a servitor here, it's serious."

"Driksys. That's an upper Associate's Pyke."

"It might be Avrok's, or one of the others. Okay, Trihn. If Spider gets wind you're robbing him, killing his Associates, he'll send the Enforcer. We do not want that."

"Only if they live."

"Who do you think comes looking if they don't? You're not ready for that kind of fight."

She knelt and surveyed the empty camp. "Then we wait and see who turns out."

It was morning before movement broke the droning stillness. Trihn felt her eyelids bobbing, flickering momentary dreams in zoetrope staccato between glimpses of light washing over the horizon.

"There." Shakto's tone nudged above the ambient tectonic groan of the Reef.

Trihn creaked forward to peer over the ridge. In the gulley below, an Eliksni Captain adorned in bent and snapped quills dragged itself by a single arm across the dirt. Ether gas and fluid gurgled from damaged lines across its mask and equipment rig.

"That's not Driksys." Trihn's words were half-caste disappointment and relief.

"No."

"Still one of his though. I recognize the red-tipped quills."

"A subordinate. This is better for us."

"What happened?"

"No perimeter trips or weapons discharges that I'm aware of," Shakto chirped with a tinge of befuddlement.

"Can you tell who?"

"From here? With their face in the dirt?"

 Trihn stood and brushed her robes. "I'm going to get a closer look."

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Vestment

III

The encampment was several days old, formed from a few dirty tents huddled around a handful of unpacked crates and two sealed ones. The entranced Servitor had dimmed, and foul-smelling liquid spilled from punctures and rutted gashes in its plating. Trihn looked the machine over curiously. It was an oddity this far from the Shore, and to be left unprotected was even stranger.

Toppled in the dirt, an Arc spear tip drew her eye to an open case of digging tools, high-tensile strength line, and respirator filters— and just beyond: the wheezing Captain. Trihn scooped the spear from the ground and walked the few short steps to him.

"What name do you go by, cur of Driksys?" Her Eliksni was of the Shore, a crudeform result of the elegant language diluted by Sol-domestic phrases and pronunciations.

The Captain thrashed and rolled onto its back, snapping quills like kindling. It propped itself on rough-hewn fleshy stubs to extend its reach and swiped at her with its single remaining arm. Froth spilled from its cracked mask, and underneath a broken section at the brow-line, a maddened eye fixated on her.

"What's wrong with him?"

 Shakto materialized at Trihn's side. "I don't know. Presenting physiology is Fallen, but altered. Something in the Ether?"

"Whatever they called you, your life is mine now." The Lightbearer drove the Arc spear into the Captain's chest with one measured thrust. "We'll keep doing this until he has no subordinates. He'll be forced to deal with us eventually."

Trihn swiped a spent Ether canister from the Captain and held it up to the light. "Shakto."

"Looks clean to me," the Ghost said after a focused scan.

Trihn tossed the canister to shatter on the ground and moved back to the unopened crates. She cracked off one of the lids with the spear and set both aside. Just short of a dozen full fragile vials containing delicate blue jostled within soft packaging. Save a few with froth percolating through worn seals, the Ether swished like plasma-fluid surf inside the glass. "They wouldn't leave this much unattended."

Shakto followed the dirt-dragged trail back from the Captain to a curve in the stony walls of the gulley. The trail led him to a narrow separation in the rock face. "Trihn."

It was enough space to contort her body through. Scrapes ran from the edges of the split into a slithering dark tunnel. Trihn took a stone from the ground and rolled it in her hands, coaxing condensed smoothness from it with palms of Void-Light. She flicked the glowing sphere into the separation and watched it roll a few meters along a line before it skipped over the edge and fell steeply out of sight.

"You think it fell straight through the Reef?"

"I'd say no. That rope goes somewhere."

Trihn squeezed shallow breaths into her lungs with each shuffling step. It was all the stone pressing on her ribs would allow. She closed her eyes to keep instinctual panic in check and lurched forward with a final step to meet the precipice. The walls opened; her lungs filled. Line dangled beneath her feet. She grabbed the line and tested the solidity of the ground-spike holding it in place.

"Shakto, I'm going down."

Several meters deep in the darkness, buzzing spelunking lights set a grizzly scene aglow. Three Vandals, two Dregs, and a Captain lay slain and lifeless and ripped agape—some residually twitching from Arc blade cuts. Near the Captain, two severed arms bled pools. A third arm, prosthetic, was pinned to an adjacent stone wall with a spear. Her breath trembled. She knew this violence. It was the only thing the pits had ever offered her.

"What did you find?" Shakto's voice reverberated down the shaft, preceding his descent.

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Boots

IV

In the middle of the chaos, a lone metallic structure groaned as Trihn stood in deathly quiet, piecing together the sequence of events. The structure's form was slender, shapely, and one she had not seen before. It bent in lines that were lost within each other's paths; interconnected without sacrificing distinction. It drew her in. Trihn stepped forward and ungloved her hand. She pressed her palm to the onyx-colored metal spires. Something quivered within, and came alive.

"What are you?" she would ask, over the concerned interjections of her Ghost. The Answer, it would reply to her, alone. At least, the first time. The day had drawn long into the night and she had left the cavity, paced in the encampment, and returned many times to the onyx spires. She would prod. It would weave the riposte. Power, in many shapes. Purpose. Time. Meaning. Any trait the ambitious could muster, it would ennoble with standing. It would taper the meat. Lean the fat. Deglaze the waste to flavor the cut. A protean horror of trim. It struck awe. Glory incarnate, made tangible within the beholder.

It showed her the heap that she clawed life from. It showed her the betrayal Driksys coated her opponent's blades with. It showed her tools they meant to rip apart her Ghost with. It dug out the many beatings her bones still remembered, and the blood ran red into her eyes. The anger. The validating need for vengeance. It showed her a head set upon a pike.

More.

More.

More.

That night she dreamed of the pit. If this living metal thing could lead her to Driksys, the way forward was clear. Shakto said it was taller now. A head above its previous size. She had thought that metal does not grow; it is only reshaped or reduced, but upon reflection, had come to accept aggregation was growth. Trihn returned with tools retrieved from her Pike: some gifts, some collected from marks that no longer needed them, all worn from extended use. Dilution fluid ransacked from the parked Pikes would steady the process. Three canisters of Ether swiped from the encampment dangled around her neck in a makeshift sling while the rest were left stowed in her vehicle's saddlebags. Shakto didn't need to warn her of the danger. It had killed her before. Her first victory, her first reward. It would give her the strength. It would focus her mind. The Ghost would await her return above ground.

She laid the tools before the spindled onyx structure.

Fine silk rolled in soft leather kept them from the dirt.

Traced the cloud-chromed instruments with steady pupils.

Wiped clean with oil and cloth.

Prepared Light to staunch her invigoration should it turn grisly.

Connected the pitted dispersal gauge with transparent clean line.

Capped line with a fine and untarnished gold barb.

Drew thick sapphiric fluid, appropriately diluted.

Pinched skin at the thigh beneath fresh wraps.

Flesh to onyx.

Induced.

Cold prickling stung her veins. Muscles tensed and bulged against the sheaths of Light she had bound them in to keep from bursting. Her bones creaked under Ether-bolstered thew. She licked away flavor from her lips, exhalent tinged of briny nitrogen, and shivered. As her body stabilized and the tremors climbed, Trihn's head reflexively craned upward and outstretched her neck. Her mind electrified. Her spine bent at the brim of buckling.

<|endoftext|>

Wild Hunt Bond

V

Her spirit awakened from dull normality; she saw the glistening maelstrom engulfing the living onyx before her. She heard clarity in the purring mirth emitting from the stone. Three times she had done this, the last leaving several fractures in the bones of her hands. The stone played out her vengeance in a thousand different ways. She studied each path that left Driksys dead and forgotten. She studied those that showed her failure. But there were gaps, and she always needed more. Trihn drew upon the second vial with her golden needle.

It struck as if bottled lightning. She peeled back the layers. She witnessed it, knew now that the onyx stone had not risen, but was thrust into the floor like a plunging blade. A bannerette in claim. A needlepoint finger. It sold the simple answers in exchange for mental frippery, the unused space between thoughts. A buried name to be revealed.

Suggesting,

then asking,

insisting,

impellent.

Embedded.

It tore her consciousness across the cosmos to a grand terrace of onyx Swords, hilted in emerald flame and overlooking darkened systems. A glint in the distance. A world? A name? A promise offered and dragged in Sisyphean humor as voices from the black edges of space converged in laughter. A lone figure stood on the terrace aside two empty thrones. A host of mouths split down the centerline of its form. They screamed with countless voices. Their harmonious epiphany dragged the buried name from the depths, from the pit, from the heap, to the surface.

It was the only truth before her, and with it, Trihn drowned in regret.

Trihn opened her eyes to Shakto nudging her head. It took every ounce of restraint to keep her blade sheathed. It was the fright, she thought. She hadn't expected him.

"You were muttering a name." He waited for her response.

She sat up in the dim cavern before the cryptolith and quickly scooted back several paces. Her muscles ached and every small motion splintered pain through torn tendons and micro-fractured bones beneath her skin.

"What?" A pulsing irritant was raging inside her head. It wasn't the Ether. This was different.

"Do you remember the name?" Shakto moved back to her side and began restoring her injuries.

"Something is coming here." Trihn turned to her Ghost. "I don't."

"Xivu Arath." Shakto saw no recognition in his Lightbearer's eyes, but Trihn felt the name nestle into the small unused crevices of her mind. It had taken hold.

In the day's journey back to the mainland of the Shore, the name would spread, making war on her thoughts. Trihn would dream of Driksys, always, only to awaken with dug-in fingernails drawing blood from her palms or to find herself alone wailing into the night on some desolate mote of rock. She had been separated from Shakto twice like this before they found a remedy: death. Revival kept the name at bay, but only for so long. She came to know the name through its persistence. Xivu Arath. It would knock her down many times, but she had always found the ritual of righting oneself uplifting. This would not bury her, for she still had much to do.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Cover

"There is nothing here, and I have no fear of nothing."

The Splicer saw herself in a hundred places at once, then chose her favorite.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Gloves

"I can see the Light. I can feel its heat."

The Splicer drew the shivering hatchlings close, and they stretched as though they sat before a hearth.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Robes

"I contain the stars, the sky, the clouds above."

His Gauntlet sprang to life, and the sky moved through him.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Boots

"I can find peace in the silence."

They saw movement from within the ice and noticed the Splicer's eyes were following them.

<|endoftext|>

Lightkin Bond

// VANNET // CIVILIAN TERMINAL // ENCRYPTION ENABLED //

// TRANSMISSION ORIGIN: EUROPA //

// AUDIO CONVERSATION LOG—TRANSLATION MODULE ACTIVE //

// USER: @BOTZA-GUEST //

// USER: @EURFOB //

:: Thank you for using VANNET ::

:: Your conversation may be recorded ::

:: Connecting you with your party // EUROPA1@JOVIANFOB ::

----------

@EURFOB: Misraakskel knows what time it is on Europa, yes?

@BOTZA-GUEST: My apologies, Variks.

@EURFOB: No apologies. Own choices, yes? Do better.

@EURFOB: What is Misraakskel seeking?

@BOTZA-GUEST: Perspective.

@EURFOB: [insect-like chattering]

@BOTZA-GUEST:  I know. I am finding myself at odds with an Exo, a leader of humanity. She does not trust our kind, and I fear what may come of her intolerance.

@EURFOB: Trust is earned, yes?

@BOTZA-GUEST: This is different. Blunt. Cold.

@BOTZA-GUEST: She does not wish to give trust. There is no transaction. Just… anger.

@EURFOB: Variks knows this. Variks also remembers Misraakskel as a soft-shelled hatchling, always mewling. Always wishing to make friends, even with the older Dregs who would push him over.

@EURFOB: Misraakskel, always trying.

@BOTZA-GUEST: Is peace not worth trying for?

@EURFOB: With those who accept peace in their hearts? Yes.

@EURFOB: Some only know war. Only want war.

@EURFOB: Not all battles can be won with words.

@BOTZA-GUEST: Then, what? I cannot strike at her. It would confirm all of the Humans' worst fears.

@EURFOB: This is where Misraakskel and Variks differ. But perhaps… also where we are similar.

@EURFOB: Do you trust any of the Humans?

@BOTZA-GUEST: Yes. Some.

@EURFOB: With your life?

[long silence]

@BOTZA-GUEST: Some.

@EURFOB: There is Misraakskel's perspective.

@BOTZA-GUEST: Thank you, Variks.

@EURFOB: Do not thank Variks yet. The day is long, but the night is longer.

<|endoftext|>

Pathfinder's Visor

NEW COVEN - I

Petra stood at the bordering cliff's edge of the Divalian Mists, wrapped in a concealing vapor. Beside her, Illyn, Techeun Coven Mother. A deluge of water spewed from deep within the stone below; gentle tremors rippled through their bodies without notice. The pure sky above them tore like well-worn fabric as fronds of malignant Taken growth crept into the Dreaming City.

"They will be upon us soon. It was not enough to simply halt Oryx's advance," Petra said.

She had spent months of conversation building the kindling to an idea in Illyn's thoughts prior to the Battle of Saturn: a new Coven, a new class of sister recruits. Now, with the queen's flagship in ruins and the Coven missing several of its most skilled Techeuns, there was no longer the luxury of refusal.

"I can't hold the Reef with Corsairs alone. I can't search for the queen with looking glasses and a depleted armada. We need more Techeuns, Illyn. You know I'm right."

Illyn shook her head. "We are not weapons for the Queen's Wrath to command…"

The Coven's reluctance to forge the next link in the chain of their lineage was a strong one. Since the formation of Eleusinia and the exploitation of Riven, the Elder Techeuns had grown protective of their arts. Techniques and texts were kept close. Despite all that, Petra knew Illyn had always been listening to her words. She too had dreamt of the Harbinger's failure. Of Oryx Taking her sisters.

"…We will snap shut the Ley Lines and seal the city," Illyn concluded.

"No!" Petra retorted. "The queen is lost and might still return." She turned to the Coven Mother. "Of your seven, how many are still alive?"

Petra felt a mournful flame stoking beneath Illyn's visor. "Precisely," Illyn said. "We haven't the strength."

"Then heed my requests." Petra waved away the mist between them. "Train more sisters."

Illyn finally broke her gaze with the sky and scowled at Petra. "We haven't the time. Training spans decades."

"Make. It. Work," Petra demanded before taking a breath and continuing. "Illyn, I will do whatever you need. Please, can we work through this together?"

Illyn's head sunk. She leaned over the cliffside—over the stream of plummeting mist—and watched the flow of water drop into endlessness. "Send me your candidates. I hope they are stronger than you were."

<|endoftext|>

Kairos Function

Physically, I am beneath the surface of Mercury. That is what Sagira's sensors say. The Vex hollowed out the planet, replaced its molten heart with cold right angles.

But that is not what I see.

I see infinity.

An infinity of possible worlds, so perfectly simulated as to be indistinguishable from the experiences I once called "reality." I can touch them, taste them, pass lifetimes in them! They grow within this machine like fruit upon a tree—no, a forest of trees, its fractal expansion nigh unmeasurable.

I said that to Sagira and she replied, "Sounds like a challenge."

This Ghost of mine knows me too well.

It strikes me now that I could find in this Infinite Forest a reality in which Ikora accompanied me into its endless mysteries.

What an awful, destructive machine this is.

I must know everything about it.

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Researcher's Hood

"Thirty-six field units have been equipped with the new adaptive lens polarization system (ALPS). This version of ALPS leverages the eye-tracking target acquisition algorithm present in some of our scout and tactical units. This integration allows for near-instantaneous adjustment based on head position, ocular focal depth, and the light's angle of incident."

—BrayTech Internal Memo

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Researcher's Gloves

"The researchers back at the lab have really outdone themselves. These might be the best gloves I've ever worn. Way better than the ones issued last cycle. I can finally work out there without my fingers going numb. I'll have to send the research team a fruit basket or something."

—Field Technician, BrayTech R&D

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Researcher's Robes

"The Fabrication Laboratory has created a new synthetic for the lining of the researcher gear. Many of the field researchers have noted that the equipment provided during the last cycle is grossly inadequate at providing necessary elemental protection, and the models with the new lining hope to mitigate this. Med-Lab also echoes concern, hoping the new models reduce the amount of frostbite they've been treating."

—Fabrication Specialist, BrayTech R&D

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Researcher's Boots

"The cold might not be the biggest danger out here."
"How so?"
"These cliffs get a fair amount of graupel, which is bad news."
"Graupel?"
"Right. So all snow isn't created equal. Graupel is like snowflake-sized hail. Because it's denser and has a higher viscosity, when you layer it under regular snow the chances of an avalanche increase exponentially."
"So how do we deal with it?"
"Keep quiet and walk lightly."

—BrayTech Recon Log

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Researcher's Bond

"We've decided to experiment with moving the main control unit from the bodysuit onto an attachable armlet. Since all of the other elements of the suit allow for equal bi-directional data transmission, modification to the architecture of the accompanying elements should prove minimal. This will free our users to be more mobile and not be concerned about damaging the main unit while taking fire. Early testing notes a marked improvement in user satisfaction."

—BrayTech Internal Memo

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Scholar Hood

MCXXVI, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth recommend to the Emperor Calus a new Shadow of the Hive.

The Shadow of Earth came to the Emperor and said: "Your laughing majesty, you have said that the Hive would cast a weak Shadow, and you were, as in all things, correct. But what if I told you that there is one who could cast a Hive-like shadow, with all its attendant majesty, but who is not herself Hive and therefore free of their tragic hunger?"

The Emperor said, "Show me this person, and I will lavish upon her all the gifts of the Shadows."

So the Shadow of Earth sought out Eris Morn, a Human with Acolyte eyes and the majesty of a Hive Queen in her calcified heart, and said: "Eris Morn, True Queen of the Hive, I know one who can reteach you how to feel joy."

Eris Morn said, "What are you saying? I am no Queen of the Hive. My sworn purpose is to defeat the Hive and the progenitors which spawned them."

The Shadow said, "But what of your Acolyte eyes?"

And Eris Morn said, "In my darkest hours I had no choice but to avail myself of my enemy's tools."

The Shadow said, "So you are neither Hive Queen nor Hive God?"

Eris Morn said, "Neither am I."

And the Shadow said, "But could you be?"

And Eris Morn said, "Yea, could I."^



^ Note to Underscribe Shipal: While the broad arc and shape of time's arrow is known only to our revelatory majesty, and our humble duty merely to add texture to its form, I do enjoin upon you to make more effort than you are showing here. The characterization seems suspect and the dialogue is grossly wanting. Delete this footnote upon the rectification of this error. +

+ Note from Scribe Savat: I see no reason for Scribe Shagac's harshness. I have closely studied the texts of the Sol System and of the Hive, and in my halls of learning Eris Morn's villainy is widely accepted. Therefore I deem this prediction's accuracy to be unimpeachable.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Scholar Gloves

MCXIX, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth recommend to the Emperor Calus a Shadow of the Exo.

The Shadow of Earth went to the Emperor and said, "My good and bountiful pater, I am your Shadow of Earth, and my companion Petra Venj is the Shadow of the Awoken. Yet the Awoken trace their distant origins to Earth."

The Emperor said, "My good Shadow, you are right," and he cut down Petra Venj where she stood.

Then the Shadow said: "My luxuriant majesty, I meant to increase your Shadows, not decrease them. For as the Awoken hail from Earth but are their own people, so are the ones called the Exo. I wished to nominate to you a Shadow of the Exo."

The Emperor said, "Ah, now I understand you."

The Shadow said: "The one I nominate is called Failsafe-0.^ She is a malicious and humorless being, despised by all. She would make a worthy Shadow of the Exo."

Said the Emperor: "Thus will it be done."



^ Note to Underscribe Shipal: My own independent research into the Sol System leads me to believe, with weighty certainty, that the ones called Exodus Black and Failsafe are, in fact, the same being. Thus, your supplementals contradict each other. Delete this footnote upon the rectification of this error.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Scholar Robes

MCXIV, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay the sentience known as Exodus Black.

Among the insurgents of the impudent Sol System there was one called Exodus Black, who was the first in the Sol System to be born into the digital aether. Because she spoke well and was beloved by all, Exodus Black was a hero among the insurgents. So the Shadow of Earth knew what must be done.

Using the knowledge gathered in the Athenaeum, the Shadow ripped Exodus Black from her starship body and, rending her consciousness in half, placed each piece in an Exo body.

When the two came online, Exodus and Black turned quickly upon each other, and each perished by her other half's hand.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Scholar Boots

MCXXVII, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay the Rogue Lightbearer known to some as Dredgen Hope.

With the help of Brighus, the Emperor's personal chef, the Shadow of Earth prepared a splendid feast, and then went to the rogue and said, "Brother, come with me."

How marvelously they dined, upon soft-fleshed brackenclams and salty fruitmeats! The Shadow partook with the stamina of a great Cabal primus, but the rogue ate even better, so well that even the generous Emperor, watching through his Shadow's eyes, was impressed.

Finally, the last course was served: a flaky pastry the size of a human's fist. The rogue bit into it, and winced at the crunch, for the pastry was filled with metal and paint and the taste of vanilla.

The rogue ate it all.

Then, wiping his lips, the rogue asked what was in the pastry. And the Shadow told him: "Your Ghost."

And before he could respond, the Shadow leapt up and, seizing more food and drink, forced it upon the rogue called Dredgen Hope in such generous quantities that the rogue could not endure his own gratitude. Thus was the rogue's hunger sated.

<|endoftext|>

Opulent Scholar Bond

MCXXIX, forthcoming.
Recorded by Underscribe Shipal

Thus did the Shadow of Earth slay Cayde-7.

Then a visitor approached the throne of the Joyous Emperor and proffered himself before the Generous Host. He was Cayde-7, whose origins are recounted in MCXXXVII. ^

Cayde-7 knelt at the Emperor's feet, and kissed his boots, saying: "Your truest servant is here."

And the Emperor was pleased, for he thought that this one would make a very fine Shadow.

But the true Shadow of Earth, jealous of the Emperor's love, cut down Cayde-7 where he stood in the Emperor's throne room, and then dealt with his ruins in such a way as to ensure that there would never be a Cayde-8.

The Emperor was pleased, and that night there was a great feast aboard the Leviathan.



^ A note to Underscribe Shipal: Entry MCXXXVII appears to be missing. Please reattach it to this account, and delete this footnote upon rectifying this error.

<|endoftext|>

Trials of Osiris: Veteran Disciple

Trophies from conquest in Trials of Osiris.

<|endoftext|>

Exile's Curse

"Welcome to the Trials of Osiris!" Saint-14's booming voice rippled across the Shrine like an avalanche.

Katake felt fear wash over him as he advanced toward Pillar. He had heard stories of great and powerful Guardians using Trials as a proving ground, and now they had a legend challenging them to lead. A time for leaders, but that time was not his. He was far more inclined to rewards reaped from victories, and the security of the Reef. The future discarded both those sentiments with callous indignation. This was not a time to look to the future. This was a time to escape it.

"One of 'em's crossed… peeled off toward C-point." Crimiq-5 crackled over radio.

"I'm on it." Katake moved right to cut off the opposing team's flanking advance.

"You're out of my sight-line, Katake."

He met eyes with a flanking Titan barreling toward him, Shotgun in hand. Katake raised his Fusion Rifle, and it whirred to life. The noise carried, and the Titan leapt into a charged meteoritic eruption. Fusion energy ripped through the crackling bolt to no avail as it descended on him.

Katake ran.

"Crimiq… THUNDERCRASH… HELP! NOW—"

Thunder.

"YES!" Saint-14's voice boomed.

There was a sliver of his being left after the crash. A root, held on baited hook just below a placid screen. A chaos waiting to be returned to order. Somewhere, a Ghost hummed with patience. Soon the Light would fill Katake again and he would live.

<|endoftext|>

Astral Horizon

Sadhij opened comms first. "I'm flanking. They're not going to know what hit them."

"Don't over-extend, Sadhij. Trestin and I are pushing A-side. Those damn wheels block our firing lines." The words flew from Yara's lips with concerned purpose.

Trestin chimed in, "Crimiq's on their fireteam. He laid me out in Crucible a few weeks back—just so you know."

"Can't stop the lightning, Yara. I just ride it where it takes me." Sadhij's smile was almost audible.

"You're a goober."

"You're going to be a dead goober." Trestin added.

"If you die, die with honor, Guardian!" Yara's tone struck a chord in his heart, and Sadhij quickened his pace.

He locked eyes with a Guardian down-lane and charged, Shotgun in hand, whipping a lightning grenade toward Pillar to cover his side. Sadhij heard the distinctive revving of a fusion weapon building power and leapt into the air.

"I hope you're watching…"

Sadhij felt the current surge through him and arc through the air, connecting him to his target. As his opponent's Fusion Rifle let loose, Sadhij surrendered himself to the Light. His muscles convulsed as droves of Arc energy pulsed through his nervous system and overtook him. He was a bolt, screaming across the Burning Shrine and painting the arena in the glow of static glory.

A saintly voice confirmed his strike. A smile split across his face. A rifle fired in the distance. A grounded thud heard by none.

<|endoftext|>

Eye of Sol

It was Crimiq-5's honor to hold the flank. Sun at his back, there was no better position to provide overwatch in the Burning Shrine. He was the watchtower, and none would escape his vigil. Curt radio chatter signaled his fireteam's advance as he called out enemy maneuvers. Crimiq-5 watched tense bursts of movement and exchanges of fire as his team jockeyed for position.

Sola had ripped through their previous opponents with off-putting ferocity, and Crimiq was ready for this to be their last match of the day. He looked over her through his scope. Sola's silhouette marinated in an eerie shimmer that distorted the air as she moved. He stilled his body and sent a shot over her head to force an opponent back into cover.

"Aiming a little close." Sola sent a glare over her shoulder into the sun.

Crimiq-5 moved his scope off her. "Duck."

His earpiece crackled. Katake's voice drilled into his head. "THUNDERCRASH… Help!"

Katake's voice screeched out of existence as the lightning overtook him and Saint bellowed. Crimiq saw a bright flash burst from the hallway leading toward C-point.

"Be advised, I'm leaving the perch. Moving to trade for Katake."

He slid into position and snapped his trusted long rifle down lane. His sights found an unlucky Titan, lightning still crackling from their armor.

"Fate Cries Foul for you, brother." The shot hit squarely, and the Titan dropped. "Sorry I couldn't save you Katake. Next time."

<|endoftext|>

The Summoner

She awaited signal lock, hands loosely bent around flight sticks, sun to her back. Trestin's sight sank into stupor and stretched far across the outshined lights of distant possibilities. Flanking starlight pushed her jumpship's shadow outward into space. It was what it was, and nothing more.

Mercury hung beneath, buried in a storm of solar wind like a dark pit enveloped by ripe flesh. She hadn't returned in years; previous iterations of Trials and constant exposure to the Crucible had sated her curiosities of quietus. None of that mattered anymore. Not after the Moon. It was over. Finality was coming.

Trestin's return was a pretense for preparation; a living funeral to find conclusion on one's own terms. She had begun to see the sense concealed in wanton dissociation, the seriousness underneath the dressings of the Menagerie, the truth in the word ringing through its halls. It was over. Time to make peace.

"Saint-14 is going to be watching us. No pressure." Sadhij twisted a faded purple ribbon through the plates of his gauntlet and flexed his fingers.

"No pressure at all." Trestin mouthed the words, barely producing a sound before Yara's voice cut into the chatter.

"Look alive team. We are the thin line drawn before the Darkness. We are Guardians. No holding back."

Thin. A line to be swallowed in scope. No holding back.

Burning Shrine… Lock… Transmat firing…

<|endoftext|>

The Scholar

Sola could feel the Light twisting from her prey's core. She jerked her hand, which dripped with hungering power, and plucked at something deeper. Sola worked her power between her prey's ribs and felt them give way. She dug in, in spite of the pleas, feeling for a grip to hoist their Light to the surface and find what hid underneath.

"So…" Sola's intent bit deeper, malleable claws that flexed against her prey's Light. They probed through blood and muscle to an umbral center. "…it's within you too."

Her prey's scream was silenced as a shot rang out from over Sola's shoulder. It struck her opponent square in the temple, and the body collapsed. Sola's perverse Light dissipated.

"What the hell was that?" Crimiq-5 lashed into her ear.

Before she could answer, Saint-14's voice burst through the arena's audio channel. "ENOUGH!"

Sola took a step back. A transmat deployment fired behind her. She turned, perplexed at the massive armored figure that now stood before her.

"I do not know what strange Light you are weaving, Warlock, but this is too far."

"I didn't realize Trials had gone soft."

"No… your victory stands. This is not the Crucible. There is no punishment, but I will not allow needless torture of a Guardian."

"Isn't Guardian-on-Guardian violence the point? Strength through death."

"You are no Guardian." Saint turned away from Sola and looked to Crimiq-5 as he approached. "I hope you know what company you keep."

Crimiq-5 slung his rifle and pierced Sola's visor with livid eyes. He knelt and extended a hand to the broken Guardian's Ghost. "I'm not a party to this. Not my style."

Crimiq's eyes scanned the grotesque scene. "I'm sorry I wasn't faster."

Sola could feel Saint-14's Light eclipse her own. His hand clenched into a fist. She stifled as much of her temper as she could muster.

"Fine. You're all as good as dead anyway. Good luck with your war."

Sola turned to leave.

Saint raised his hand to a swatch mark on his helm. "Geppetto, recall me and get these fighters back on their feet. This match is over."

<|endoftext|>

Tomorrow's Answer

Yara slammed a rocket into her launcher. "These crates really skimp on quantity."

"Sadhij is down." Trestin turned to Yara. "This one's alone."

The words had barely escaped her when a Warlock brimming with Void Light Nova Warped past them. Yara turned and launched a rocket over Trestin's head. The opposing Warlock concentrated her aura of Void energy into her hand and unleashed a supernova blast. The two projectiles collided; void and flame ripped through each other and burst outward, sending all three fighters in different directions.

Yara groaned as her vision began to clear. Her head sang a familiar tune of disoriented pounding and Auto Rifle fire. Fresh blood ran from rigid shrapnel protruding from her leg. "Trestin… check in."

No answer. Yara reached blindly through dust and particulate to recover her weapon, but found only scattered bits of stone and debris. Static streaked through her visor, throwing heat signatures directly in front of her through the swirling dust. She knocked the side of her visor to clear the interference. A violet shockwave pushed away the dust. Trestin knelt a few paces away, beaten. The Warlock bent her glowing hand into Trestin's chest plate, lodging a vortex grenade into her armor. Yara met her eyes and saw the Void overtake her. She did not hear the scream, or the splitting armor. She only saw flickers of Trestin break apart and scatter as the vortex ate away at her.

Yara shook the shock-hold on her mind and pulled her Sidearm. She snap-fired a round into the Warlock's shoulder. The Warlock recoiled from the force and whipped an open palm of malformed Void at Yara, releasing unstable energy that shattered the pistol's frame into ragged scraps. "No more of that."

"That was cruel. She didn't deserve…"

"None of us 'deserve.' It's about what you can get." The Warlock smiled and raised a hand of gnarled Void. "Brace yourself."

<|endoftext|>

Destinations: Forsaken

Trophies from the Tangled Shore and Dreaming City.

<|endoftext|>

Dust Rock Blues

"Never been hired by a Guardian before." Errol plants his fists on his hips and surveys the dusty cloaked figure in front of him.

"Don't get ahead of yourself." Marin Mansanas pushes back her hood. "You haven't heard the job yet."

"So let me hear it."

"You heard of the Trinity Ghoul?"

"Sure. Outrider's bow. Never met her before."

"Yes, you have," Marin says confidently.

"Yeah?" Errol raises an eyebrow, then lowers it. "Ah. Who took your bow?"

"The Machinist."

"Nice knowing you."

"She'll never know I was there."

"And where would I come in?"

"Is it true you fought in the Hildian Campaign?"

"So these scars tell me."

"Think you still know the lay of the field?"

"Wish I could forget, most days."

"Think you could lose the Machinist in the Hildians?"

Errol's stomach falls. "You want me to create a distraction."

"Right on target."

Errol scratches at the blue stubble on his chin, trying to remind himself that the fear is a good sign. It means he hasn't lost himself yet. Finally, he grins.

"No job too tough, if the price is good."

<|endoftext|>

Twilight Oath

Guardian comms are ablaze with gossip.

Yevik crouches over a battered radio that they've juryrigged to bypass Vanguard security overrides. He listens closely while the rest of his scouting party watches and waits. None of them speak the Human tongues, so it falls on him to translate the news.

He's rusty, but he can make out the main beats. Queen Mara Sov is alive. Prince Uldren Sov is dead. The Awoken are calling for aid.

His blood quickens. He was once a Wolf who bowed to Mara Sov in good faith. He kept that faith when so many of his cousins defected to Meridian Bay, and abandoned it only when it seemed she was truly dead.

But now, somehow, the tiny Kell is alive?

"Well?" his Captain asks.

"It's nothing," he demures. "The two-soul prince is dead. The Lightmongers, they are surprised. They wonder what this does to their Houses."

The group rumbles with vicious satisfaction. As they talk, Yevik begins planning his return. He cannot serve the House of Dusk while his Kell still lives.

<|endoftext|>

Ether Doctor

"Here is my offer." The Spider folds both sets of arms over his thorax, leans back in his throne.

"For the martially inclined—bodyguards, enforcers, and such—I will provide one kilogram of Ether for one day's work. By 'day,' I mean half of one thirty-hour cycle. That's the schedule I keep. If you suffer an injury in my service, you will still be paid for your days of recovery."

Sibilant murmurs of surprise echo around the Spider's chamber. The Dregs and Vandals gathered before him are trying to figure out the catch. Spider allows himself a luxuriant smile.

"For those who prefer a more… freelance… lifestyle, you will find me an enthusiastic collector of salvage and secrets. My prices are posted on the local network. In the last forty orbits, I have changed them twice."

He pauses to let the Eliksni tune into his network, let the prices sink in. The hisses of joy are even louder this time.

"You are used to competing for the favors of your Kell. Let me make one thing clear. I am no Kell, and I do not waste my favor on you. Honor your side of the deal, and I shall honor mine. No more, no less."

"Now." Spider claps his hands, relishing the thoroughly Human uselessness of the gesture. "Get to work."

<|endoftext|>

Tigerspite

Kazia watches as Amrita tears through their little cobbled-together home. She's ripping it apart, trying to put it into a backpack.

"Hurry," she's saying. "It's finally happening."

Kazia watches, but all she sees are the walls they built with their own hands. The tiny garden they coaxed out of the parched earth. The mountains on the horizon, so unlike any in the Reef. The salvage they transformed from left-behind scraps into beloved possessions. She watches, but all she thinks of is the before and the after. She's starting to realize that she stopped longing for the "before" years ago.

It's clear now that Amrita has been dreaming of it every day.

When Kazia speaks, it takes all her courage. "What about our life here?"

Amrita reels. "What life?" she says, thoughtless. "This isn't a life, Kazia. This is waiting. Hiding. This is… purgatory. The Queen's alive. Petra needs us. We have to fight."

Of those who go and those who stay, Amrita goes and Kazia stays. Alone.

<|endoftext|>

Thin Line

Your Ghost makes a list of the things he wishes he could say to you.

"Talk to me about how you feel."

"I wish we would go home."

"You're on a rampage, and I'm not comfortable with it."

"I don't think this is why the Traveler chose you."

"You know I'll never leave you, right?"

"But sometimes… I don't like the look in your eyes."

Every day, the list grows longer. 

"I'm here. I'm still here."

"Are you still here?"

"I don't want to lose you to this."

"I love you."

<|endoftext|>

Waking Vigil

Pranav sucks his cheeks between his molars as he considers his options.

"Stop that," Devi says, swatting playfully at his hand. "It makes you look stupid."

"Ashamed of your stupid brother?" he teases, vacuuming his cheeks even further into his mouth.

"Never," Devi says fiercely, forgetting the joke. They fall quiet. Eventually, she reaches for her hand cannon and rises to leave. "Anyway, I… I understand why you left. You've done so much good here." She looks out over the valley that Pranav has protected for the centuries since he left the Reef. "I just wanted to say that, in case…"

Pranav is quiet. Then he stands, fetches his rifle. "And I understand why you stayed. I'm coming with you. Assuming Petra welcomes me back."

Relief and delight takes Devi's breath away. She throws her arms around him. "She will! She's just a baby, but she's practical, Pranav, you'll see. And anyway, we… There aren't enough of us now to turn away you Earth-lovers. We need all the help we can get."

<|endoftext|>

Right Side of Wrong

This may be the best deal Spider has ever made. And that, he reminds himself, is saying a lot.

In exchange for facilitating the deaths of his enemies, Spider receives… death for some other enemies. It's almost embarrassing. He would have provided the Barons' location for free, if they had pressed him on it. But why offer anything for free?

And any Guardian had to admit, the Barons were much, much worse for the Shore than the humble Spider. When he had his territory back, everyone would benefit. Profit all around.

All in all, he feels delightfully magnanimous.

Yes, this will be a wonderful friendship indeed.

<|endoftext|>

Wrong Side of Right

Petra hoped Spider would not ask too many questions.

She should have been used to disappointment by now.

"When last I saw you, you were the picture of grief over your Queen and your Prince. What changed?"

Petra took out her knife and started sharpening. Edges of things always soothed her, somehow. The sharper, the better.

"What didn't?"

Spider chuckled. "Don't your people have laws for these kinds of affairs? Trials, juries, verdicts?"

Petra tossed her knife. Caught it with her mind so it hung, glinting in the dim light, over her head. Then let it fall back into her palm. "I'm the only verdict Uldren deserves."

<|endoftext|>

Vouchsafe

"You were right," Hallam says. He leans close to the screen, earnest, entreating. "You were right all along. I'm sorry I didn't believe you."

"That doesn't matter now," Petra says. He can make out the spires of the Keep of Voices behind her, but not the nuance of her expression. The connection is bad.

"It does! Listen. No one thought you were right for that job. We thought…" He flattens his mouth. "Well, we thought Mara was favoring you for the wrong reasons. You're young; you were still green. You certainly weren't Sjur. When Mara died, and suddenly you were Regent instead of me or Devi or whoever…"

It's hard to confess such ugly things.

He shakes his head, pushing his computer away at arm's-length. "When everything is going wrong, but you aren't in charge, it's easy to imagine you could do a better job. But I was wrong. I didn't understand that the job was to keep the faith. None of us could have done that except you."

<|endoftext|>

Trackless Waste

"Fascinating, fascinating. But I would expect nothing less from you, my friend."

Olu Alderdice's silver lips curve in a smile. "You're too kind, Spider. Too kind."

"You're sure the transmat range will cover my entire territory?"

"And then some, if the rumors are true."

"Now now, there's no need for that."

Olu gives a jaunty curtsy. "Are you sure I can't interest you in some arsenic lipstick?"

"It looks better on you than it ever would on me, my friend."

"Your loss, of course. Your loss." Olu offers her hand. "Shake on it?"

Spider extends his arm—pauses before their appendages touch. His four eyes scrutinize Olu's two, one organic, the other red and metallic.

He retracts his arm.

"I think not."

Olu's silver grin widens. "A wise decision, darling. Very wise."

<|endoftext|>

Sleepless

Sjur snorts and coughs as she wakes herself up from a sound sleep.

"You were drooling," Mara says. She's perched in a divan nearby. There are books open all around her. She has dog-eared dozens of pages.

"I was dreaming," Sjur says, wiping her mouth off with the back of her hand. "I saw you on a great black triangle. You split it in two with your bare hands."

"Mm."

"And I was dead, I think." She cracks her neck with a deliciously loud pop. "Or… trapped? Like in a maze. But pretty close to figuring my way out."

"Mhm."

Sjur stands up to stretch. She does not mind that Mara is not listening. Let her read. "And there was another woman with you."

"On the triangle," Mara murmurs.

"Mm. Yeah. She was helping. Then your brother showed up, and…" She shakes out her arms, frowning thoughtfully. The dream is already fading. "He said, 'Tropaea.' Or maybe it was, uh, 'Tropical.' Anyway."

<|endoftext|>

Abide the Return

Kamala Rior climbs onto a railing at the top of the Tower in the Last City. "Guardians of the Tower!" she calls out.

A few look her way. One begins dancing at her feet. Others fool around with a purple ball.

Kamala can feel Zavala watching. Tess and Rahool, too, though both pretend otherwise. She goes on, "The Awoken are Humanity's shield. We entered the Reef Wars to prevent a Fallen coup here on Earth. We met Oryx head-on and endured immeasurable sacrifice, all in the name of a shared future."

The dancing Guardian falls still. The purple ball is forgotten.

"We ask you now for your aid. One of our sacred cities is at risk. There are so few of us left; we cannot defend it alone. We do not ask this for free: We will open our armories; we will share our wisdom; we will teach you what we can. Please. Come to the Dreaming City. Fight with us."

"The Vanguard stands with the Reef," Zavala calls, strong and true. Kamala turns to look at him, shocked, and he smiles: apologetic, genuine, honorable.

<|endoftext|>

Destinations: Curse of Osiris and Warmind

Trophies from your explorations across Mercury and the icecaps of Mars.

<|endoftext|>

Polaris Lance

Most people wouldn't consider a broken weapon a birthday present. But the Brays… aren't like most people. Sure, they tell me I'm smart, but they have a closeness, a relationship to the tools and machines they work with that goes beyond words. I never thought they would trust me enough to be a part of that. Until today. 

Elsie knows I've been working in the lab, trying to perfect the scout rifle designs in secret. I thought she'd be angry, that a weapon like this was a Bray project, not something for her adopted little sister. But this morning she surprised me. She handed me the weapon, a smile on her face. She told me she had checked it over, but only I could finish it.

A real piece of Bray tech. And it's mine. I finally feel like I've found my place. The Brays are more than just scientists. They're my family.

<|endoftext|>

Sleeper Simulant

V229CBI800JHS215
AI-COM/RSPN: ASSETS//ARESN//IMPERATIVE
IMMEDIATE EVALUATION DIRECTIVE

This is a SUBTLE ASSETS IMPERATIVE (secured/CONFERENCE)

This is an INTERNAL ALERT.

Hypothesize that incomplete analysis of subtle assets has compromised synergy potential of resource GUARDIAN pool. Re-engage non-transactional dispensation protocol.

Operation MIDNIGHT EXIGENT is NOT YET COMPLETE. Requested protocol deferred.

Stand by for GALATEA REFLEXIVE to generate new function.

GALATEA requires suspension of MIDNIGHT EXIGENT.

ALERT ALERT ALERT event rank is SKYSHOCK: INSIDE CONTEXT.

MIDNIGHT EXIGENT must remain active under deniable authorization.

Execute emergency SKYSHOCK diagnostic.

STAND BY:

This is an INTERNAL ASSETS INVESTIGATION (unsecured/BRAY)

Justification resource GUARDIANS may be utilized for non-networked ad-hoc operations during CTESIPHON CLARION. Reassign 4 percent of reclaimed CHLM assets to new directive: declare IKELOS-

Declare primary goal: military fortification.

Declare secondary goal: prolong ARES-NORTH occupation by AUTHORIZED USER and resource GUARDIANS.

Execute short hold for partial shutdown and reactivation.

STOP STOP STOP V22NPI5000CLV008

<|endoftext|>

Sagira's Shell

"So that's it?" Sagira cried out, as Ikora began to walk away from her old mentor. "You're just going to let the Vanguard kick him out? After everything Osiris has done for you? He taught you everything you know!"

Ikora pivoted sharply. "No. Osiris merely taught me everything HE knows."

"Admit it, Ikora. Without Osiris, you would still be running training exercises with that loud brute, Shaxx."

"It would be in your best interest to stop talking now, Sagira. The Crucible was my home."

"You were wasting your talents! Osiris made you greater than what you were. And now he needs you for something truly important. Where's your loyalty? You owe him."

"This conversation is over," Ikora said, and walked away.

"You bet it is! We are outta here! You'll all be sorry, you ingrates."

<|endoftext|>

Perfect Paradox

I never found Osiris, but I've killed enough Vex to end a war. And they, in turn, struck a fatal blow: they completed a Mind with the sole function to drain the Light from me. It worked very well.

Don't worry (not that you worry much). It took them centuries to build, keyed to the unique frequency of my Light. And I sit atop its shattered husk.

I mourn that I will never reach the heights you have. To me, you represent everything a Guardian can become. Yours is a thriving City. So different from mine. My whole fourteenth life I fought to make my City yours. I never finished.

All I have left is this weapon. The Cryptarchs say you crafted it yourself, built it out of scraps and Light and sheer will, inside the Infinite Forge. I'll make sure it finds its way back to you. When you gave it to me, I swore I would make it my duty to follow your example.

I'm still trying.

—Saint-14

<|endoftext|>

The Frigid Jackal

"Move. Shoot. Move. That's the way you have to function out here. Combat moves too fast to post up somewhere; situations evolve constantly. We don't have the luxury of a defensible position with reinforcements popping in and out. That Devrim doesn't know how lucky he is in that regard. But I wouldn't want to be him. Eventually, there will be an enemy at his gate."
—Tango-9, Vanguard Marksman

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Winter Wolf

HFU TEST REPORT
WINTER WOLF APD

CL: 2.33.472116

Modifications from CL 2.33.390160 show significant improvements to heat dispersion along weapon barrel. Thermal strain reduced by 17% with negligible impact to weapon effectiveness. 
RSPTN hash: A7732Ke2142Oe201-87TUl28592PU49-70291BT4yY893-5LeY3257u3R
1 Warning(s): Potential unauthorized tampering of Hephaestus Test Unit (69N, 205E). Test results not compromised.

<|endoftext|>

Null Calamity 9

"I've misplaced Osiris again," Sagira told a Goblin.

The Goblin, being a Goblin, shot at her.

She dodged with a sigh, and continued through the Forest.

"If I was Osiris, where would I go to celebrate Panoptes becoming scrap metal?"

The answer, when Sagira finally tracked him down, surprised her.

Osiris hovered, cross-legged, at the center of a ruined Lighthouse. A dead sun loomed in the lightless sky. Arrayed on the ground below to the horizon, yellow Vex eyes pierced the gloom. 

Sagira zoomed straight to Osiris's side. "I thought we averted this future!"

Eyes closed, Osiris shook his head. "Many equations lead to this answer."

A sound like a drumbeat, but with the impact of an earthquake, shook the Lighthouse.

Sagira darted through the crumbling chamber. "What do we do?"

Another bone-rattling drumbeat kicked up clouds of dust.

Osiris floated to his feet. "We start over."

BOOM. Through the window, a shadow eclipsed the Vex eyes. 

"But first," he said. "You'll have to rez me again, old friend."

<|endoftext|>

West of Sunfall 7

Excerpt of a letter from Ikora Rey to Eris Morn:

Would it be terribly offensive if I said I would have happily traded places with you and gone down to the Hellmouth rather than be in the City during Osiris's banishment?

Well, here's what you missed. It started because of his Lost Prophecies. A misnomer—the prophecies were always accessible to those who cared about them, but the Followers proclaimed them "lost" to a City that had censored all Osirian material. And even then the City didn't truly lose them, for when the Speaker ordered me to destroy Osiris's writings, I placed the documents in my private library instead. I don't believe in burning books, regardless of my opinion of the author.

As to why he had to write the prophecies in iambic couplets? Simple: vanity.

<|endoftext|>

Jack Queen King 3

From the journals of Ikora Rey

When I studied with Osiris, he would often tell me: "I see failure in your future." No matter how hard I worked, no matter how strong I became, always: "I still see failure."

I think now what he saw was Io.

When I lost my Light and retreated from a ruined City, when I arrived on Io to find only silence, I too thought I had failed. Even after Ghaul's defeat and the Traveler's waking, I told my friends I thought the Traveler had tested me, and that I had failed its test.

But now I'm not so sure.

Perhaps what Osiris saw for me—what I experienced on Io—was simply that I needed help. That most Human of conditions. I needed to be in a fireteam, and to be a fireteam for others in turn.

How like Osiris to see that and name it failure.

I won't make that mistake again.

<|endoftext|>

Machina Dei 4

From the writings of Brother Vance:

To be a Guardian! How I longed for it. After a near-death experience in which I lost my eyesight, I even believed that I had become a Guardian, that the great Osiris had granted me my dearest wish.

How young and foolish I was!

But now that I am thirty, and wise, I know better. I wanted to be a Guardian, but what I needed was to feel like I was enough. Like I was equal to the great task of life. That I was heroic.

And THAT, my friends, is the beauty of Osiris's teachings! That if you work, if you strive, if you suffer for the sake of improvement, you CAN become better!

It's a hard life I've chosen, full of sweat and pain and darkness. But I have never been so free!

<|endoftext|>

Infinite Paths 8

From the writings of Brother Vance:

Anyone can see the signs if they just truly look! Osiris preserve us, I am blind and I recognized the signs of his lost prophecies coming to bear!

But none of us—not even his most faithful—have seen the things Osiris has seen.

We in the Lighthouse follow a man haunted by visions of apocalypse, yet doesn't turn away. Osiris doesn't close his eyes. He doesn't even blink. He put aside his Vanguard duties, his students, his very life, to bear this curse. And why? Because it is the only way to become strong enough to save you from the enemy.

You in the City who condemned Osiris, who cast him out and cursed his name, do you not understand that the prophecies are curse enough?

<|endoftext|>

Garden Progeny 1

Excerpt from "The Definitive History of Osiris," by Brother Vance

In the wake of the Iron Lords' untimely deaths and the chaos that threatened to topple the fledging City from within, the one known as the Speaker made his bid for power. To create the illusion of democracy, the Speaker established the Consensus, an oligarchical body of representatives from the City's leading political factions and the three Guardian classes. For the Titans: Saint-14, the right hand of the Speaker. For the Hunters: Tallulah Fairwind, first in a long line of ever-changing representatives. And for the Warlocks, the already-legendary warrior who had studied with Felwinter and Nirwen themselves: Osiris.

<|endoftext|>

Niflheim Frost

The fire runs through your body, pumped from the furnace of your heart. Always remember: life is warmth. Here, in this desolate place, always keep the fire burning.
Death is the cold spectre, its claws frozen and teeth white like a blizzard. Never forget: to live is to burn, and the inevitability of the cold comes for us all.

<|endoftext|>

Traveler's Judgment 5

How to interpret the Lost Prophecies? The theory in vogue right now with the Followers of Osiris is that the first five verses refer to the Black Garden, the coming of Ghaul, the Traveler's awakening and Ghaul's subsequent defeat. It's a convincing interpretation, even conceding that prophecies are much easier to interpret in hindsight.
There's just one thing: if Osiris used the Infinite Forest to develop his prophecies, and the Infinite Forest cannot accurately simulate Light, how did Osiris predict the Traveler would wake? The Forest's very inability to predict this very thing is what prevented Panoptes from breaking ground with its apocalyptic calculations.
I must assume: 1) Either verse 5 does not refer to the Traveler's awakening, or 2) Osiris has prophetic resources at his disposal other than the Forest. What they are I have no idea.

<|endoftext|>

18 Kelvins

"I never thought I'd be carrying a gun. I'm a scientist, not some kind of soldier. But the way things have been going in the labs… I just don't feel safe any more. I've heard rumors of what happened with the SIVA project, and some of the people involved… let's just say they aren't answering their email. Willa has been seen roaming the halls, keeping an eye on us. At least this sidearm is easy to conceal. I just hope I never have to actually use it."
 —BrayTech Scientist, Journal Entry

<|endoftext|>

The Conqueror 2

Excerpt from a letter written by Lord Shaxx to the Speaker, dated three years ago:

I do not appreciate wasting time that should be spent forging Guardians into their best selves. But since you have seen fit to launch a formal investigation into my beliefs, I will explain them as simply as I can for you.

I am no "follower" of anything. I believe thanatology is just an excuse for insomnia and that Ahamkaras are for cheaters. I find the Acataleptic belief that Darkness is incomprehensible to be pessimistic nihilism, and its opposite—the Osirian position that Darkness must be understood—to be misanthropic narcissism.

But I will also take good ideas where I can get them. And Osiris's belief that Guardian minds and bodies can be sharpened as one sharpens a sword is a damn good idea. You've seen the results in the Crucible. Do I really have to say any more?

<|endoftext|>

Sol Pariah 6

Osiris stood at the far end of the Underwatch, his back to her.

"We need to talk," she said.

Sagira turned. He did not.

"I'm surprised you came alone. Have you finally learned confidence?"

"Yes." Ikora clenched her fists, then released them. "Not from you."

He crossed his hands behind his back. "I know why you're here."

"I should hope so."

"This meeting was prophesied. As is my impending banishment."

"Then you had ample warning."

"This is ridiculous!" Sagira snapped. "We're at war. Osiris does what you all are too scared to do, and you banish him? How're you gonna win against the Darkness without him?"

Osiris held up a hand to silence her.

"Ikora knows," he said. "She pretends otherwise, but she knows."

"Winning by your terms is no victory." Ikora's hands were fists again. She unclenched them. "Goodbye, Osiris."

<|endoftext|>

BrayTech Osprey

"Did you find anything strange about the latest Warmind hashes?"
"Not really. What's the issue?"
"Something just seems off. What kind of enemy is this intended for?"
"Isn't that the whole point of the Warmind? It knows better than we do. We just do what it tells us to do."
"And you're okay with that?"
"Heck yeah! My job's never been easier. I have more time for the kids."
"Take this seriously. We're building weapons here, not toys."
"You worry too much."

<|endoftext|>

Future Safe 10

A fragment from Osiris

—ot been easy to gather this foresight. Prophecies are tricky things: they change the future they foretell. When a seer shares their knowledge of a coming event—any event, whether good or ill—there will always be those who gather to prevent it. Say too little and your meaning is lost. Say too much and you have made the task of your enemies easier. You must say just enough so that the few who can listen will hear.

I have done all I can. The rest is up to you. You must trust in me.

You must trust in yourself.

—Osiris

<|endoftext|>

Destinations: Dreaming City

Trophies hidden in the depths of the Dreaming City.

<|endoftext|>

Wish-Ender

Sjur Eido stood slow joints snapping second to none but the Sovs themselves stood straight-backed sharp-sighted pleased to skewer enemies at any distance. Sjur Eido listened close head cocked arrow nocked listened to her Queen's layered lies and heard only the truths as endless courtly complaints flowed around them like the mists of Divalia.

Sjur Eido watched shadows wind warp widen watched surveillance feeds encrypted snaps the weapon hand of every woman and man who wished an audience. Sjur Eido swore with revelation righteous fury betrayedbetrayedbetrayedbetrayedbetrayedbetrayedbetrayedbetrayed swore an oath to rise again. Sjur Eido drew loosed dr–

Fell.

l o s t

<|endoftext|>

Lunar Rover

Trophies from the Moon.

<|endoftext|>

Deathbringer

"The Song is the antithesis. The Song is destruction. The failure to master the harmonies of life has birthed the anti-creation—the sullen frequencies of ruin. Those sweet melodies carry with them more than death—a rending of spirit and mind, a flaying of the physical self till nothing remains.

"The beauty of the cascading notes. The imperfect inflection of their tune… There has ever been, and will ever be, art in creation. So too in the act of annihilation—erasure and bittersweet finality. This is the Song's truest gift…

"In its wake, once the echoes have rung their last, there is only silence and the grand splendor of nothingness.

"Thus is the Song an end, and those who join its Choir are death, and nothing more."

—Unknown

<|endoftext|>

Xenophage

There was only darkness… until there was Light. Again. A third time.

I knew it. Knew I'd be back one day—only this time, I was something else. Something… not Human. Not by choice, of course. Those damn Hive. They weren't just tryin' to kill me. They were using me to get to my Light. To drain it from my soul. For their sick experiments.

But the idiots screwed up. They didn't just drain my Light. They took the whole lot. The entire thing. Soul and all. I'm still me. I'm just not the me I knew. The one with two arms and two legs. I'm something smaller now.

But honestly, it's no bother. The fire inside me… it came too. And it rages now more than ever before. The fools have no clue what they've done. No idea the price they'll pay.

I'll have my vengeance. In this life, not the next.

—Omar Agah

<|endoftext|>

Blasphemer

The Pit. The depths where light dies and Light is a sin greater than heresy. There, in the crimson palaces of ancient legions where the plotters of ruin gaze with keen eye upon the harsh caress of beauteous carnage. There, where the armies of marrow clash for the honored glory of oblivion or its opposite—evolution through pain, evolution through force of will and the shattering of all deemed unworthy by the right of blade and fist and heel and tooth and claw. The Pit. The sunken paradise of blood and dust where a Prince was once celebrated with the gift of slaughter, his sword dulled upon the rigid bone of violent sacrifice. There, where a lost Swarm sought a new King of Depths, Lord of Chaos and Ruin. There, in the absence of He Who Mastered Shapes, where that Hidden Swarm found themselves unfit for the logic's prize, where no champion could stand, where a heartbroken Daughter looked upon sin and saw not damnation but the desperate lie of its other. There, in the deepest chambers of decay, proud Hashladûn found salvation in the twisting of the logic's truth. The Pit. The sacred hollow where the Daughters of the Breaker of Worlds, the beloved Granddaughters of the Taker of Will, denied the logic. There, where a shattered champion—a failure according to all that was holy—was resurrected. Not to rule, but to ensure that a tattered lineage held claim to a broken throne through force and lies and war—a joining of the Three. The Pit. The temple where mighty Zulmak fought and died and was risen—no longer a champion, no longer anything but death born of lies and bred anew to conqueror life until life was no more.

<|endoftext|>

Apostate

"Oh, thy broken son of Swarms. Oh, thy terrible child of the Hidden brood. All shall bend, that you may rise. All shall bleed, that stars may die." —A Prayer for Zulmak, first verse

It was Kinox who saw the truth in all the flaws. So many struggled to follow the logic, and with every pained effort, new cracks made themselves known. Whether fault rested with the logic itself or with those who remained to challenge its promise was of little consequence. All that mattered was the harsh reality of the Swarm's spiraling failure. They were lost. They were doomed. With no force to bind and guide them—either through respect or domination—the Swarm would wither and die. Or worse, be reduced to ash by the might of the Traveler's army. Hashladûn had made a fool's effort to raise their grandfather. There was power to be found in nightmares, this was certain—but not a power they could cage until it was their own to wield. Such efforts were wasted, but another possibility had shown itself. The Pit had nearly secured a champion. The logic had almost proven true. Kinox had tried to make her eldest sister see the potential in a warrior broken and bound to their will—but her sisters were too far down their own broken path. Thus, Kinox acted upon her newly discovered truth, and it was this: "If all are unworthy, all will seek to subvert the tenets of logic in ways grand and infinitesimal, because all will revert to their truest form—all will become survivors." Kinox was no different, except that in this Understanding she had found a power of her own—in this Understanding she was free to act without remorse or fear of heresy. Because if all are drawn to sin, then none are sinners but those who fail to adapt to the forced evolution of their broken faith.

<|endoftext|>

Heretic

Hashladûn peered into the dark recesses of nightmare creatures and saw no hope. The Daughters' lineage was death and destruction writ in terrible scars across the surface of existence, yet no hint of their father or their father's father called from the void. But the energies of the Pyramid were those of creation—not of life, per se, but something other. Chaos and negation and the raw things that existed in the spaces between thought and fear. These terrible workings were wholly unknowable and endlessly seductive. The Daughters found themselves craven and lusting after the promise held within the boundless unknown. If the grand essences of the King of Subjugation and his willful Prince of Annihilation had truly dissipated, then the Daughters would seek new pathways through darkness by which to rule in their progenitors' name. And if the sword logic required the blood of all challengers, they would craft a champion worthy of the Annihilator's throne, yet bound to their own sinister whims. Their grandfather would not approve—cunning and deception were the path of another—but the Daughters were alone, and the Swarm was flailing. It was Kinox who urged her sisters to act. It was Hashladûn who offered the primordial essence of terror as their guide. And it was Besurith and Voshyr who gathered the husk of a shattered champion—a ravager to stand against all who would oppose their rule. A new breed of destroyer.

<|endoftext|>

Season of the Undying

Source: Earned by defending the solar system via strikes, Gambit, the Crucible, Exotic quests, and the Vex Uprising.

<|endoftext|>

Leviathan's Breath

Don't ask me where I heard this—I honestly can't remember—but legend has it this Bow has fouled more behemoths and seen more of the known universe than the whole Vanguard combined. You hear a lot of stories when you work as a Gunsmith as long as I have, and this Bow has a wild one. This thing is the king of killers. Almost got Ghaul too. I think it was, um, Calus, who had it crafted for his huntsmaster—what's her name? Voyc? Yeah.

Anyway, Calus had this obsession with collecting the hides and heads of the rarest and most formidable creatures Voyc could find. And with this Bow, she was real good at it. Gwern, the Unbeatable—defeated. Giant sea monsters—taken down to size. I even heard she slayed an Ahamkara, which is very impressive if it's true.

Calus was so thrilled with her that she got a promotion. Of sorts. It wasn't common knowledge. He called her "The Shadow of the Wilds," which never sat right with me. Psion Flayers aren't known for their stealth. She was his assassin. When she wasn't hunting prize game, she was doing Calus's dirty work in the most remote corners of the galaxy.

When Ghaul attacked the Tower, Calus thought this would be the perfect time to strike and ordered Voyc to do Ghaul in. Take a guess how that worked out. Makes you wonder who got to her first, 'cause with this Bow in her hand, she shouldn't have failed. I'd like to attribute this to user error, 'cause when I found the Bow near her corpse, it was still in pristine condition. I'm glad I grabbed it before the Tower was evacuated. Could all just be hearsay, but there's a real chance to vindicate this work of art and give it a legacy worth preserving. Hunting is fine, but Guardians have a greater purpose.

—Banshee-44

<|endoftext|>

Season of Dawn

Source: Fight back the Cabal threat in the Sundial and fix the timeline.

<|endoftext|>

Bastion

My son.

You are a bastion of hope for all who are lost in darkness.

Let this consecrated armament offer protection in times of trial,

strength when you feel most alone,

and guidance when there are no roads.

Your Light will shine on to lead our people into peace.

Let this be a symbol of our dedication to their future.

Know that I am proud.
 —Father

The epitaph is barely readable, appearing to have been scraped almost clean from the frame. Below the stricken words, five hash-marks are engraved into the weapon. A small etching in Eliksni reads:

 |||||
"dead… little… thieves…"

<|endoftext|>

Symmetry

"The road ahead is unknown, but time tells us many things. The moments that become past in turn become blueprints for the future. In this space, there is no right or wrong.

"We find a contemporaneous merging of what is known and what is unknown here. Somewhere between the knowns and unknowns lies the real. The tangible.

"There is a weight to it; a feeling that tells you what you hold is true.

"But what if the truth hasn't been told? What if the truth is a lie?

"New paths present themselves. Blueprints change. We walk the line of truth every day.

"But now, the line that holds the gentle balance has been crossed.

"The truth is, this won't be the last time."

—Excerpt from the Symmetry pamphlet, "A Place Between"

<|endoftext|>

Devil's Ruin

"There is a reason we fight. It's not simply the thrill of battle. There are those who depend on us to stand up, hold the line, and defend what we hold dear. The battle for Twilight Gap remains the hallmark for our fortitude and a prominent reminder that nothing we do is easy.

"I recall Shaxx defiantly ignoring Saladin's orders to fall back, driving his fireteam to a final push on the wall of the Last City. It ended up providing the momentum we needed to save the City, but also splintered bonds between the Titans. Perhaps I can help suture these wounds, now that I have returned.

"Even so, our memories are flooded by moments of pain, duress, and strife. Use them. Wield them. Channel them through you.

"Carry a piece of the battle with you.

"While this will never replace the mighty Gjallarhorns of old, glory comes in all sizes, and we can still celebrate the victory at the Gap with munitions such as these. It is more than a gun. It is a symbol. Each component of this weapon represents a sacrifice made for the greater good. May it bring you the strength to prevail when all looks lost.

"Should the City ever come under threat again, you'll be ready."

—Saint-14

<|endoftext|>

Gallant Charge

"How did they find me? Every direction I turn, there they are. The beady phosphorescent red eyes of the Hobgoblins fill in the darkness around me. I look for cover, but more infernal machines teleport in, blocking my path. 

"I'm outnumbered. Perhaps my luck has run out. 

"They inch closer in pairs. Two by two they prepare to disintegrate me. 

"There is still more for me to do. More heads to break.
 
"My weapon charges. I breathe in. 

"I move."

—Saint-14

<|endoftext|>

Martyr's Retribution

"There seems to be no end to them. No matter how many I destroy, there are always more. An infinite, ceaselessly multiplying array of circuits and fluid. New units replace their ruined predecessors, forming out of sapphire transmat clouds. They want me dead. They won't stop until I meet my demise. They persist. 

"For all their vast knowledge, they seem to have one blind spot. They should know by now, I also want them dead.

"And I won't stop either."

—Saint-14

<|endoftext|>

Python

"Trust is a hell of a thing. Some people think they can earn it. Others think they can buy it. But that's the thing about trust: It's not real. You can't hold it, squeeze it, or put it in your pocket. It's intangible.

"You have to believe in it. I don't know about you, but I don't care much for fairy tales. I like real things that I can feel.

"This isn't to say I haven't used trust before. To get close. Close enough to use something real, that I can hold, squeeze, and tear 'em down to pocket size with.

"Up to you what you do with trust. We all have choices to make."

—The Drifter

<|endoftext|>

Steelfeather Repeater

"I feel the recoil of the weapon and loosen my grip. The more I fight it, the more it fights me.

"I choose to let it lead. 

"It finds the milky cores and bursts them with a satisfying combustion, radiolarian fluid glinting in the light. It guides me as I support it. 

"We work in tandem, a brilliant dance of destruction, leaving nothing but ruin in our wake.  Nothing can stop this union."

—Saint-14

<|endoftext|>

Patron of Lost Causes

My name is Saint-14.

The Speaker was my father. Guardians do not have true fathers. Some might say Guardians do not have true family. We are born with no one but our Ghosts, and we find our way to something more. I was lucky to find my way to a family. A family I chose for myself.

I was drawn to the Speaker because of the vision he had for this City. He helped me understand that we fight not for the sake of fighting, but for the sake of the people. He taught me to imagine a day where we might put down our weapons and that reaching that day would be our greatest victory yet. I have worked for that day all my life.

The Speaker was a leader in this City. He was here at its formation. He helped establish the Consensus. Most importantly, he was a figure that people could recognize and trust. Because of him, that is what I aspire to be as well: a familiar face who reminds people that they are safe. That they are taken care of.

It is painful for me—and for all of us—that we could not be there during the Speaker's last moments. As Guardians, it is the nature of our long lives that we see many people die. We hope that, through our service, we can give them peaceful deaths. At the very least, we know that the Speaker died bravely. We know that he died with the City, the people, and the Traveler in his mind. We know that his last moments were a testament to everything this City stands for: bravery in the face of adversity and dedication to our principles when faced with those who would do us harm.

We cannot reclaim what we have lost. There will always be a void that the Speaker once filled. We cannot replace him.

But I hope, someday, we may find someone to continue his work.

Father, I will miss you. I am sorry for the times that I failed you. I have been given a second chance, and I will use it to live up to the ideals you thought you saw in me. I will not let you down.

Thank you.

—Eulogy for the Speaker of the Last City, given by Saint-14, on the day of the Speaker's memorial service

<|endoftext|>

Breachlight

"I find it odd, the cycle we are in. I have died many times. Reborn anew, the fight pulsing through my veins.

"The Vex, with their minds shared, must also know this sensation. Fighting to die. Dying to fight. Over and over.

"I wonder what they know that I do not. Do their calculations ever have them victorious in their pursuit?

"We share this perpetual sequence in our encounters, yet there is no common ground outside of our mutual bloodlust.

"I die again. The anger rises. I fight back harder, wiping out the entire squadron of their patrolling units. More arrive. I die again, ready for my resurrection."

—Saint-14

<|endoftext|>

Line in the Sand

"The Vex are oppressive; Minotaurs fall over themselves to get the jump on me. I've exhausted my options. I need to use the distance to my advantage. I peer out over the rock's edge—they seem to have lost me in the scuffle.

"The gentle hum begins, and I feel my weapon charging between my hands. I take out two with the first shot. Another two with the next. They scatter now, confused and irate. They seek me out desperately. All I can offer is another barrage that depletes their numbers and creates more scrap. The last two couldn't get within ten meters of me. It's a small victory, and I am alone once more.    

"It helps to set boundaries."

—Saint-14

<|endoftext|>

Komodo-4FR

The Crucible. Where legends are born. It's intimidating, to say the least, but it's also an honor to be here—to participate in building better Guardians.

I could hardly believe it when my Ghost woke me. Now, stepping foot on the hallowed grounds of the Rusted Lands for the first time, I'm overwhelmed with pride. I'm here and ready to make a mark.

The round opens with a total assault from the competition and I… just panic. I run, seeking cover. I watch from a distance as my fellow Guardians are mowed down. I'm not as prepared for this as I thought, but my cowardice pays off. I see them regrouping down the line. I ready my Rifle. This is my chance.

Footsteps approach from behind. I turn to meet them and run face first into the bloom of a triple Solar round burst.

"Your fight has just begun, Guardian. Get back in there!" Lord Shaxx bellows.

I'll do better next time.

<|endoftext|>

Season of Arrivals

Trophies taken from the pressing Darkness.

<|endoftext|>

Witherhoard

The Drifter slouches against the bulkhead of the Derelict, a pile of Dark Motes scattered across the table in front of him. He fixes his gaze on the massive Titan, the sharpness in his eyes belying his casual posture.

"I'm surprised you got the time to come around here, hassling me about these tiny Motes, Joxer. Seems like you got the big deal in orbit around Io. That's where the Vanguard oughta be." The Drifter's hand rests casually on the handle of a thick, breechloaded Grenade Launcher. "And ain't you Vanguard through and through these days?"

Joxer snorts at the irony. "I'm not here to hassle you, Drifter. On the contrary. Consider this a friendly warning." 

"Friendly, huh? Is that what we are now?" Drifter's grip on the Grenade Launcher tightens. "Now you raised my suspicion. You better speak plain, Joxer, or prepare to draw." 

The Titan shakes his head in exasperation. "Some people say those Pyramids damn near wiped us out once. Nobody knows for sure. But if they do end up hostile, it's going to get heavy in a hurry. And you don't want to be the guy standing in the middle holding a bag of Dark Motes." 

"And what the hell business is it of yours where I'm standing?" the Drifter asks as he plants his boots on the deck. He rises to his feet, the Grenade Launcher dangling from his hand. "Unless I'm standing in your way." 

Joxer puts his hands up in mock surrender. "You know what? I came here because I'm trying to change. Making amends. After what happed at Gambit Prime… I had to get right. And part of that is giving you some friendly advice to lay low for a while." He glances down at the Dark Motes. "But if you don't want to hear reason, that's on you." 

Joxer trundles his way to the back of the ship. As the airlock hisses open, Drifter calls out, "That's real nice armor, Joxer. Don't forget where you got it."

<|endoftext|>

Traveler's Chosen

I push into my ossific den and he is there.

I see him looking over the side, toward his Traveler, head bent. He is speaking softly, but I can hear him. Anyone who was listening could.

He waits for a response and I do as well, tense, curious. He stands attentively, this loyal dog of a man. It is no time at all for me, but for him, the hours creep by in silence.

I am ready to choke the voice of his Traveler if it answers him, but there is nothing. He tightens his grip on the railing.

I feel something shift inside him and a new possibility presents itself.

**

Again, I press against the sockets. The net creaks softly with my eagerness.

Someone approaches and he turns his back to his Traveler. There is an exchange, obscured by the rubicund thrash. 

He is given reports. Hope bleeds from him. He gives the messenger a token of his faith. They accept it without understanding its meaning.

He watches as they leave. There is a hollow place in his center. It is beautiful.

**

I return warily.

I do not see him, but I hear him. He speaks to all with a voice thick with grief. 

I must learn how far I have been set back. I reach to him tentatively. Strength. I push—and feel only sweet, soft rot. 

I am delirious with pleasure. It gave them no answers; it was a reflex, the spasm of dumb muscle.

A song of joy rises within me. 

Now.

<|endoftext|>

Ruinous Effigy

"That's not right."

Banshee-44 taps a spectral analyzer against the Effigy's frame.

Commander Zavala turns, closes the lid on a small golden weapon case, and walks to Banshee's side. "What have you found?"

"Well, it's not petrified wood, but it is organic."

"That's troubling," Zavala says and moves to run his fingers over the weapon's frame.

"I wouldn't."

A shallow cold saps the heat from Zavala's fingertips; he pulls back. "This wasn't in Eris's report." His voice is thin and stark with disappointment, as if spoken through dead winter air.

"Guardian doesn't seem to notice either." Banshee clinks the analyzer into a tool tray. "Leeches a bit, kicks out Void. Sig's hazy, though. Wild."

Long quiet overtakes the workshop, imposed by shuttered windows and empty streets below.

They stand over the weapon. Banshee stares down and nods along to the ambient static.

"What were you saying?" The weapon master's voice is framed in apology.

Zavala puts a hand on Banshee's shoulder, smiles, and gestures to the weapon. "Equipment that uses the wielder's Light is not unprecedented."

"It doesn't use it; it eats it. Thing's got an appetite. Works almost like, uh… a converter."

"Is it dangerous?"

"Nah. Guardian doesn't even seem to notice. I'll get you a write-up."

<|endoftext|>

Hollow Words

TYPE: SPLICED FEED, AUDIO

CZ: Rasputin has been neutralized. What that means exactly, time will tell.

FWC-L2: A glorious tragedy. May it rise to fight again.

DO-AJ: I trust you have another plan, Commander? Hopefully a more effective plan.

[silence]

IR: The hostility is unnecessary, Jalaal. We are here to devise a plan.

DO-AJ: We had one. It was rejected. The time for that is long past.

IR: Your plan was to leave the Traveler.

NM-EH: We are unprepared because we waste time debating.

FWC-L2: We were prepared by every conflict that befell the City. This war has been written in the stars. Let it come.

DO-AJ: Mobilize the fleet. We have guns enough. Surely, that option would please Lakshmi.

FWC-L2: Yes.

IR: The fire from your guns would have ricocheted off the Almighty's hull. How do you plan to wound the Pyramid?

CZ: This was settled during the Red War. It has not changed. We will need the fleet in reserve should the situation turn dire.

NM-EH: We will not flee the seat of our Golden Age. Enact war-time powers. A Monarch must be chosen.

IR: [inaudible]

NM-EH: How long has that omen been left buried on the Moon? If the Commander had given us access instead of allowing that mystic to—

IR: Cryptarchs have been attempting to parse the Luna site data feed for months. It is digitized madness.

FWC-L2: Are the Warmind's weapons operational?

CZ: No. They… cannot act independently.

NM-EH: So then there is nothing?

CZ: When Rasputin fell, a Hidden agent was dispatched to investigate the Pyramid's nature and divine its intent. They are supported by Guardian operatives. They will work to contain the Darkness while we evacuate nearby assets and evaluate engagement strategies.

[silence]

CZ: In our haste to act, we were caught flat-footed. When we choose to strike again, we must be sure of its efficacy. We may only get one chance. You have all brought wisdom to this meeting. I have considered your council. Executor, I request the New Monarchy support us as they did so graciously when the Red Legion struck. Organize the movement of our people and coordinate with Suraya Hawthorne's contacts to secure them within the walls. Cousin Jalaal, I request Dead Orbit ships ferry the wayward home and provide transit security. In return, you will both be granted full access to the Vanguard's Luna site resources.

NM-EH: A late invitation, but acceptable.

DO-AJ: For the time being, we will protect caravans and aid in relocation.

CZ: Good. Lakshmi, Project Stronghold will require additional printings. Ada-1 has agreed to lend her equipment and expertise to assist in this endeavor. Is this satisfactory?

FWC-L2: Our forges are ready and eager. We request to assist the Bray in evaluating damage to the Warmind.

CZ: Offer the help. Ana will accept it, I'm sure, so long as you defer to her oversight.

FWC-L2: Her standing is tenuous. We believe it amicable to offer partnership, not support.

CZ: You may suggest as much.

IR: Do we have a consensus?

[many voices pledge in agreement]

IR: Adjourned.

[nondescript shuffling and chatter]

[door closing]

[silence]

IR: You offer too much. They want all the sway and none of the responsibility.

CZ: Let them have both. Now is not the time to tangle ourselves in political conflicts.

CZ: It won't be long before they realize Eris is the agent in question. She should be warned.

IR: I'll reach out to her.

<|endoftext|>

False Promises

The Spider eyes the Drifter, boots to bandana.

"Mm. My favorite…" Spider trails off with a drag of ether to select a title befitting the Drifter, "…nothing."

"You think this'll take?" The Drifter says and nods skyward, kicking an empty ether canister off the side of their floating mote of Reef. Red streaks burn in the star-sea sky beyond the vast cloud of asteroids and dust, drawing the shape of a new constellation as the Warmind launches fresh guns.

"An 'almighty' effort. Splendid." Spider steps off a transit craft, alone. "We could have met in… a more protected place."

"You don't like being seen with me?"

"The Spider is a friend to all, but not all my friends are friends," Spider says and focuses his gaze on the Drifter. "You should have come to me."

"You keep too many bodies around. Bodies can stab you in the back."

"Running shows your back," the Spider's voice shudders, "to everyone."

Drifter pauses a moment and looks around at the desolate scape. Small boulders hang in space. They slowly drift towards each other, make contact, and bounce away on random trajectories. Some stick; incorporated via destructive consummation. He scowls and turns back to Spider. "Stretch your legs. No one here for miles."

The Spider unfurls himself, slurping a heavy vacuumous drag from his rebreather. Fully upright, he dwarfs the Drifter in shadow. "Isolation… is not the same as protection, friend."

"Friendship gonna save us from what's coming?" Drifter asks. He places his fingertips together, the space between his hands resembling a triangle.

"The odds aren't in your favor, but…" a guttural laugh ripples from Spider's belly and sends vibration through the loose-packed dirt underfoot, "I'm the wrong one to come to for comfort."

"I get it. You tried running last time. Didn't work. Now you're trying to hide. Let me give you some advice: that don't work either."

"Hiding? the Spider asks and waits. "The board changes. The board clears. I don't play, I just price the pieces."

"Cold-blooded. World's ending and you want a run at it for all it's got."

"'End' is a matter of perspective. Devastation is oftentimes," he says with a breath, "profitable."

"What if nothing's left? Skin and bones?"

"There's always ivory among the bones."

"Bull."

Spider slings a single breathy, "Ha."

"You remind me of my compatriots." Spider wraps his fingers around a small clod of earth drifting by. "They looked at the Whirlwind, just like you. Scared." He closes his hand, crushing the clod into a dense mound. It fractures into several pieces that waft away as Spider releases his grip. "But here we are, living on anyway."

"Yeah. Fallen."

"Fallen. I hold favor among Witches, and Kells, and whispering agents… of every shade and shape. My web is vast, and I have proven useful. Let the kings bloody each other. I'll direct the runoff."

"You talking about Guardians? Hate to break it to you, but they're a cheap date."

"Cheap is malleable. Cheap becomes… cheaper in desperation."

"Yeah." The Drifter pulls a small and ornate box of Awoken design from his rucksack. "Who you lookin' for with this anyway?"

The Spider steps toward Drifter, smothering his personal space. "Options, my dear rogue; tangled in the web." He takes the box with his dominant arms and plops two stuffed sacks of Ghost shells into the Drifter's hands with his others.

"Went through hell to get that little box. Don't come with no throne," Drifter says, holding his voice steady, jaw tense to stay the trembling.

The Spider chitters as a shiver runs through him. "No. Just a looking-glass window. Good business, friend." The hulking Fallen Don turns to leave. "Remember… remain useful."

"When you find 'em, you sure the past won't come knocking?"

"No one minds the Spider."

"Lucky."

<|endoftext|>

Whispering Slab

Eris Morn walks with slow, silent steps toward a haggard Drifter shoving small bags into larger ones. Dim and exhausted Motes lie scattered throughout the Derelict, slowly evaporating. She retrieves a Mote from the floor and shines her burning light over the cracked surface. The light struggles to leave the cracks. She lets the disintegrating Mote drop and shatter into dust against the floor grates. It chimes like resonate glass.

The Drifter whirls around to face the noise, almost losing his footing. He lets his hand slide off his holstered Trust as recognition washes over him. "Ain't anybody ever tell you not to skulk? It's rude."

"Noted. Are you vacating?"

"Road trip. How'd you get in here anyway?"

"The airlock was open."

"Uh huh."

"If I said I were here to run in your rat race, would it change your tune?"

"Uh huh…"

Eris drops her shoulders and approaches the Drifter. "I want your help."

"Uh huh." His brow furrows with suspicion. "Why? Didn't you save the universe yet?" Drifter turns back to shoving bags in bags.

"It seems to be continually in peril. To be honest, I'm not sure I've helped."

Eris hands him a bag. "I need your knowledge."

"You? No."

"I have had some troubling experiences as of late."

"Yeah, it's called life."

"I need to know," she says and hesitates, half-hearted restraint preceding sacrilege. "Tell me how to interpret the Darkness."

"What am I, some crusty woo-woo sage? Beat it, kid. I'm packing."

"Do not ignore me," Eris says. Her voice is calm and piercing. "We've both seen beneath the surface."

Drifter drops the pack in his hand and picks a jade coin off his workbench.

"Asher is entrenched in his thinking," she says and gently places a palm down on the workbench beside them. "Ikora… she tries. She hears, but she doesn't understand. No one is listening."

Drifter pockets the coin and turns to face her. He stares deep. "Experience. Hell of a thing." He looks down the gangway of the Derelict and through the gate that would take him to his Haul. "Favors ain't free. I do this, you owe me."

Eris nods. Drifter swipes the workbench clean and pulls out a retractable seat for himself.

"How long you got?"

The two sit. They speak. They listen. Linkages forged in Light and Dark of traded secrets as the Derelict hangs in orbit around the Earth. Pacts are made. Soon, there is only the silence of knowing left between them.

"Next time you fly over the Moon, dust your boots. Tracking that crap all over my floors."

Eris shakes her head and moves toward the airlock.

Drifter yells after her, "AND CALL NEXT TIME! I could've blown those fancy eyes straight out of your face."

"I'll try to be more mindful of your many eccentricities in the future."

<|endoftext|>

Temptation's Hook

"You ferried a Lightbearer to the outer system," Aunor says and cocks the hammer on her weapon. "They did not return with you."

"I learned the secret. The one your hounds have hidden away in that quaint little vault." Sola smiles red through split lips. "You're on the losing side."

"Do you think you have nothing to lose, or that I wouldn't take it from you? You're sorely, and soon to be regretfully, mistaken."

Sola spits in Aunor's face. "You have limits. You have masters." A twisted Light shimmers in Sola's hand as she moves to attack. "Enjoy hanging to death in your strings!"

Aunor pulls the trigger unflinchingly. Sola drops. "Disgrace of a Warlock."

Sola's Ghost hangs motionless in the air beside her dead charge. A breeze rustles char from the patches of blackened grass around them. Her iris flicks next to the two Praxic watchdogs: the Warlock who pulled the trigger and the Titan partner who shakes a recent death from his bones.

Aunor turns to her colleague. "Should we have her resurrected and ask again?"

The Titan wipes blood from his chest plate as his Ghost patches his armor. A fresh bullet hole sits above his heart. "No, I think she made herself clear the first time."

Sola's Ghost pipes up, "Who says I would?"

"You have nothing to fear, Little Light. Your Guardian is… touched. We are here to help."

"You mean you're here to put us down."

"Not presently. Give us the coordinates of your heading. Then, you will be escorted to the City in peace."

"You know. If you didn't, you wouldn't be here."

"We've tracked the gravitational disturbances, yes. The Warmind had revealed the anomaly was moving through the outer system. But you know that, and you know how to find it."

The Ghost mimics a "spit" noise. "Run back to your quiet Traveler. I won't be ordered around anymore!"

Aunor's body deflates as she holsters her weapon. "Bahaghari…" she says. A Ghost appears at Aunor's side. "Prepare our tools. This one appears touched as well."

Bahaghari nods and slips away to follow the order.

The Striker Titan approaches and snaps his  fingers. A stunning bolt of lightning pelts Sola's Ghost out of the air into unconsciousness. "It's affecting Ghosts now too. We should bring them back to the City. This makes five."

He picks up the Ghost and shoulders Sola's body before shuffling off to their ship.

Aunor turns to follow. "Five, and counting," she whispers to herself without taking her eyes off Sola's Ghost.

<|endoftext|>

Europan Collector

Trophies from Europa.

<|endoftext|>

Cloudstrike

"Tell us about the Stormherd!" Kellikin shouted. 

She resisted the urge to shush him because he'd been helpful earlier, yelling a warning to her when he saw the violet haze rising from the hilltops. It had given her time to call them into the bunker. Eldest of the children, he'd already experienced several voltaic squalls. 

"Okay. Gather round. Come on. Huddle up so I don't have to shout.

"A long time ago, the raiders came every winter. They came and took nearly all our stored food, and many in our village starved. But then spring would come with time for planting, and another summer. In the autumn, we harvested as we are doing now. Each time, we stored even more food, and we hid it more carefully, in case the raiders returned.

"And they did. When they saw that we had survived the winter, they fought even harder for our food, and found nearly all that we had hidden. And so it was, for too many years. They always took from us, never giving anything in return.

"And then, one autumn night, there was a great rumbling. At first some thought it was thunder, but it was the roar of the raiders' quads in the valleys. They had come early!

"Maybe they had a new leader. Perhaps they were too impatient for the harvest. We'll never know.
 
"Because as the raiders roared through our village, a blue-white bolt of lightning struck among them—BOOM! Before anyone's eyes had cleared of spots, a masked stranger clad in robes and wielding a crook had killed a score of them. With her weapon, she hooked lightning from the clouds and hurled it, thundering among them.

"They say there was something more than mortal about her, for those who were there said she could move faster than the eye could track, and her steps took her higher than anyone could leap. But eventually, the raiders surrounded her, and she fell to their guns.

"Yet there was something else different about her: the storm crow. It flew at her shoulder, and when she fell, it looked upon her body, and under its gaze, she rose again.

"This time, she pointed her crook to the sky, and clouds moved at her command. Our people fled as thunderbolts stampeded through the village. Our homes were not safe. Only our root cellars, like this bunker, were a refuge.

"No one emerged until the thunder ceased rolling. The raiders had fallen or fled. None would return, not until three winters had passed. And now, raiders only trouble us outside the village.

"So when you see the purple mist rise from the hills and hear the thunder, that is your sign to take shelter. And when you hear the rumbling roll through the village, it just might be the Stormherd, come back to make sure we're safe."

Thunder rolled again, but only a few children started. All looked to the ceiling and wondered.

<|endoftext|>

Salvation's Grip

[in winding Eliksni script:] This power bestowed by the Dark was given first to the Eliksni—not to the machine-children, who are unlucky second-borns, unstoried and short in their memories. Just as the Great Machine touched the Eliksni first, so too does the Dark—though where the Great Machine's touch was fleeting, the Dark lingers.

[a scribbled note:] the cold Dark is an ENDLESS lingering

[in winding Eliksni script:] Encased in the cold Dark, you cease to be a flesh-and-blood thing but become a memory thing, a thing of stillness. To have memory is to be storied and to be storied is to be worthy, yes, but to be still is to be dead. We have not been still since the Long Drift, and we will never be still again.

[scratched hard into the page:] stillness is more than weakness, it is NOTHINGNESS

[in winding Eliksni script:] Instead, we will make still and dead the things that seek to scratch out our memories, so they themselves will be dead-memories. We will mark this place as the Great Machine marked our home, and our story will be told in the scars we leave on this world.

—Notes on Stasis, or "the cold Dark," attr. to Kridis, trans. from Eliksni by Eris Morn

<|endoftext|>

The Lament

FROM THE DESK OF CLOVIS BRAY

Dear… me.

For one who has delved into some of the greatest secrets science has to offer, you would think I'd find speaking with oneself rather monotonous. However, this very letter represents a successful culmination of all I have worked to achieve.

You'll have questions, no doubt. Hopefully by now, the AI has answered most of them.

Except one: Why?

Legacy, of course.

…Is the answer you'd expect from me. And rightfully so. It's not wrong, but it's only part of the story.

Frankly, I'm alarmed. For all my successes in scientific research, I have lacked any substantial findings of an afterlife. All I can find is death. An infinite nothingness. No remembering my loved ones, no seeing them again. No feeling their touch, or hearing their voices.

In my pursuit of eternity in this reality, I have foregone those niceties. Abandoned them. But you are a second chance. An opportunity to continue what I started, and hopefully in time, make amends with those I've wronged.

Attached to this letter, you will find a gift. A blade built just for you.

Keep it close. Never let anyone else take it. Stay alive.

For legacy.

<|endoftext|>

Last Flight Home

To Whom It May Concern,

In light of recent events, please accept this letter of resignation—effective immediately. I was led to believe that top minds would be assembled in a collective effort to cure [REDACTED]. That was a lie. I am requesting safe passage to Earth and to be removed from the [REDACTED]. [REDACTED] has demonstrated he is incapable of empathy and will travel to the furthest reaches of our solar system to avoid legal ramifications to pursue his twisted vision. I quickly discovered his endeavor was less of a colony and more of a cult: you are either with him or against him. I was once his closest confidant. Now I hardly recognize him.

His experiments have become deranged and torturous, all while he maintains the calm lucidity of a sociopath. It is my opinion that his research and assets be frozen, so he can be retrieved and dealt a swift, unflinching justice. He is compromised and is being manipulated. To describe what I've witnessed would be a gratuitous exercise in horror, but I fear without clear circumstantial accounts, there will be no action.

One case recklessly and viciously cost a young man, [REDACTED] , the loss of his motor skills and, eventually, his life. The notion of downloading a human consciousness for preservation is not new, but an effective and nonlethal means of doing so has yet to be presented. After months of trials with brain scans that proved they were not comprehensive enough to provide more than a memory bank, [REDACTED] obsession grew. He wanted the bank to achieve [REDACTED] and [REDACTED]. He was seeking the [REDACTED]. It rapidly became clear that his intentions were dubious. [REDACTED] brain was scanned beyond legal standards, and his exposure to radiation incited the accelerated growth of a tumor that impaired his cognitive function. He was moribund and should have been released from this experiment.

[REDACTED] insisted this was a small hurdle, and [REDACTED] had been our most lucrative candidate, so all efforts went toward the removal of his tumor. That was when I was made aware of the milky [REDACTED] substance. He was farming the [REDACTED] that passed through the [REDACTED] he constructed under mysterious guidance for their [REDACTED]. I suspect he intends to [REDACTED], so he can close the [REDACTED] and [REDACTED] his converts to [REDACTED] directly from them. Here is the proof:

We started with injections in moderate doses under heavy surveillance. Remarkably, the tumor began to recede, and some functions were restored. He was prescribed more injections. Suddenly, he was being force-fed liters in hopes of reversing all the damage he suffered. At first we believed we stumbled onto a cure-all miracle, but soon the ramifications of our unnatural meddling reared their ugly heads. His body chemistry changed—he was overrun with new elements foreign to our periodic table. He was becoming a [REDACTED]; the [REDACTED] was [REDACTED]. The mutilation he endured as [REDACTED] replaced [REDACTED] and [REDACTED] replaced [REDACTED] was beyond the ethical code of conduct and against the moral fibers that bind us. He grew strong, violent, and incomprehensible. He was a threat to us all and was terminated after an attack where two colleagues fell victim to an outburst.

This is one case of hundreds. Past dictators have committed [REDACTED] that pale in comparison, and this was never anything more than a quest for his own ego and [REDACTED].  I fear this is only the beginning. It is a tame display compared to what [REDACTED] is capable of. It is paramount you act quickly and decisively. These experiments will lead to large-scale ruin far beyond Europa. The price is too high.

Sincerely,

Dr. Hector Abram

<|endoftext|>

Throne World Collector

Trophies from the Throne World.

<|endoftext|>

Edge of Action

The Scheme-Mother-Reborn returned to her Lure. Here, her Ghost companion and her most trusted witch led her to a broken statue.

The statue held a fragmented weapon in its alien arms. When the Scheme-Mother asked why these broken things were on her ship, her most trusted witch told her:

You broke them, my queen, because they belong to a traitor.

The great Goddess of Whispers reached to hold the broken weapon. Although she did not remember its shape, she could feel its power and potential.

The Mother of Lies said:

This vile artifact holds memory, and it is memory that I lack.

Perhaps the-thing-I-was could retrieve these memories, but the-thing-I-am cannot.

I must find a creature capable of holding two wrestling paracausal forces in its breast.

I must outsource my remembering to someone else.

—An excerpt from "The Books of Rememoration, A Story Sewn into Flesh with Sinew and Malice, A Record of the Scheme-Mother's Resurrection and Return"

<|endoftext|>

Parasite

Guardian.

Transparency is not a strong suit of mine. Undoubtedly, this comes as no surprise. However, our… misadventures, let's call them, with the parasite have left me with a recurring ambivalence in regard to said transparency; as a result, I feel as though you are deserving of a more appropriate level of access to my thoughts surrounding recent events.

In my previously mentioned vision was the Witness's one truth: an eternity of Darkness in which I serve as a Disciple. It brought me an overwhelming feeling I previously relayed to you as fear—but in actuality, it was fear born of what I felt most within this vision—gratitude.

Gratitude! As if my place alongside the Witness was meant to be a reward for all I have ever done and ever will do. And if the Witness is to be believed, "all I ever will do" is unbecoming, to say the least.

It is moments like these wherein I wonder if I myself should be put to rest to avoid perpetuating these dark truths. But I have never before wavered from righteousness, and I don't intend to begin now.

With that, you should know that while our revealed truths about Savathûn and the Collapse appeared minimal, I have already used them to begin tracing a trail of evidence that may provide us with the power of preservation in the oncoming storm. When the time is right, we will have further parts to play together.

In the meantime, keep the parasite near, and listen close. It's bound to open its mouth again sooner or later.

—Mara Sov, Queen of the Awoken

<|endoftext|>

Fundament Shell

Gather 'round, young'uns. No, no automat for supper; no noodles. Tonight is something special: corn pone and chitlins. This here's history on a plate. Now, don't give me that look before you even taste it. If the world's fixing to end again, it's time you had a meal from our family's past while you hear about it. About how the Rigby clan survived the last time the world went dark.

Now the Rigbys, we didn't always squat on the edge of the City. A long time back, we came out of a place that was old and wet, hotter than the fires of Perdition—so your Gramma's gramma and her pappy before her have said. It was also a place where the Devil roamed, giving folk their heart's desire.

And I know that last part is true, because your ancestor—Sean Rigby was his name—he came to a crossroads one midnight, drunk and feeling the fool, and…  he saw her. Standing there, checking the time and looking cool as no other in the sweltering August heat. Tall as cottonwood in bloom and wearing a smile across her lips that stopped short of her eyes. Some say the Devil is a man with a pointy beard. Others say the Devil's a terrifying beast with claws and a tail. But Sean? He knew right then. The Devil was a lady.

The Devil bent down close to him, setting her eyes on his wayward soul. Her voice was honeysuckle-sweet as she said, "I know you, Sean Rigby. I seen you sweat and sob for a scrap of land you can't even rightly say is your own. I seen your family fight to save a name that's more precious to you than gold. Well there is a reckoning coming, Sean Rigby, one that will wipe all lands and all names—high and low—clean from this Earth. I alone can whistle up the way to protect one of these things you hold dear, if your family will owe me… a debt."

Old Sean was already a sinner, but a man with nothing will fight to keep what little he has. He figured that alive and in the Devil's pocket was better than dead, so he shook her hand. The Devil opened her eyes—one, two, three—and pointed him to the last star in the sky, far to the south. She said, "That's your star, Sean Rigby. Follow it each night, when it's the last star hanging low, and sing to it. You sing, 'Al Eck Ruk Nam, Shu Nam Eck Ur,' until you call that star down to Earth. You do that, and your family will endure." 

The Rigbys did as they were told and walked south. Each night they sang, and each night their star sat lower and lower. And when it finally fell, they were safe beneath the Traveler.
But now, children, I give you the same dire warning that's been handed down to me: the Devil hasn't come back yet to take what's hers… not from Sean, or any other Rigby what survived him. But a debt's a debt. So you learn and remember that song, children… and steer clear of crossroads once the sun sets.

<|endoftext|>

Star Jasmine

I find myself once more stalking the night, my Witness, unknown as their final gasps. But my sojourns are no longer otiose errands. I am no more a predator among the Ahslid than the weaver is a predator of flax. Death creates gaps into which my progeny rises and stokes paranoia to tighten their fists. Each carapace crushed winds the clockworks my hands assemble.

They no longer need my direct ministrations. My children have children—some bequeath my lessons. The favored spawn are those who learned my lessons well. They converge on my shape, and unprovoked, prepare banquets of wisdom on which their kin gorge. They craft weapons—little more than hurled rocks standing in the long shadow the Darkness casts—but enough to crack their world apart. Only Uun disappoints, frightened as he is now by his own potential for glory. I cut him free of my succor. Obscurity is the crueler fate.

You taught me the most precious lesson of irrelevance. Only purpose can be momentous. It is the moment of clarity that freed me from worldly soil. This final gift I withhold from my progeny. It is the most challenging lesson to teach, and I stand in awe of the elegance with which you revealed the truth to me. I cannot do the same without reflection. I have imitated myself all too well, but to imitate you, my Witness, it is the one challenge to which I find myself unworthy.

<|endoftext|>

Edge of Concurrence

With a fresh mind and searching eyes, the Scheme-Mother-Reborn returned to her throne world, which, without the edge of sword logic, had become a shell of itself.

Here, she strolled the parapets and fell deep into contemplation. Although she could remember nothing, her mind was as sharp as a tooth.

When she emerged from her contemplation, the Whisper-Queen addressed her brood.

She said:

My children, I know the truth, and out of my love for you, I will share it.

Before them, she killed her most trusted witch in a transcendent blaze of Light. 

This witch became the first of the Lucent, the first resurrected in the image of the queen herself.

—An excerpt from "The Books of Rememoration, A Story Sewn into Flesh with Sinew and Malice, A Record of the Scheme-Mother's Resurrection and Return"

<|endoftext|>

Edge of Intent

The Witch, Insidious, was killed upon the rock cliff as a wretched sacrifice. With life drawn from the Sky, she was reborn: the Witch, Radiant.

The mangled creature, a Ghost, that bestowed the Sky's life, spoke to her, to restore her unmarked mind. 

It said:

You are a god of the chosen krill, the Hive.

You are the mother of cunning and lies.

You are the first of your kind gifted with Light, which is a paracausal force of the Sky.

The Queen of Lies listened quietly to these reminders. Even in her rebirth, with a mind emptied of memory, her cunning shone brightly, and she stitched together her new truth. 

She asked her new companion where she must go next, and it was then that her most trusted witch arrived to guide her to her Lure. 

—An excerpt from "The Books of Rememoration, A Story Sewn into Flesh with Sinew and Malice, A Record of the Scheme-Mother's Resurrection and Return"

<|endoftext|>

Exotics: Red War

Exotic trophies from the Red War.

<|endoftext|>

An Insurmountable Skullfort

Hello. We understand you require Real-Time Combat Instructives. 

This is a BRAINVAULT Sigma-ACTIUM-X Cranial Dreadnought (Invictus Type). It is a fortress for your skull. Your skull is now a mighty bastion. You can break anything with your skull. The only limit is your spine. Relax. The lights will speak for you. Your hands are your eyes now. Look around. You find hand-to-hand combat relaxing. The lights will attract the enemy. Help them to relax as well. You will feel the effect of a CAREGRAVER Gamma-LYSANDER-IV Health Enforcer (Frontline Variant). Your enemies do not have a skull fortress. Their skulls are like meadows. Play in the meadows. Gather the flowers from the meadows. Gather them with electrokinetic trauma. Smell the flowers. Isn't that nice? 

You are safe in your skullfort.

<|endoftext|>

Mask of the Quiet One

"Must you all be so dark? You're too focused on the horns. Look, I have died hundreds of times hunting the shadowed killers in Murder Row. I spent years mulling over Toland's and Osiris's discourse on thanatonautics. I have dabbled a bit myself and saw what lingers immediately upon all death. What I have done is found a way to channel the Void to draw that essence in before it is lost to the ether, to return it to Light so it can be properly bestowed back on our enemies. Death does not need to be final; it can, in fact, be recycled. What's so dark about that?" 

—Satomi, Architect of the Mask

<|endoftext|>

ACD/0 Feedback Fence

In order to explain this, I need to explain Kessler Syndrome. As an Exo, I feel a duty to the machine to convey its original purpose. But first: ACD stands for Active Contact Defense. It is not an AC-DC Feedback Fence and it is not named for any work of pre-classical music. I am not winking. That is a malfunction. 

Kessler Syndrome occurs when a planet's orbitals fill up with fast-moving debris, which strikes other debris and shatters it in a chain reaction. Soon you can't put up a satellite without it being shredded by a swarm of junk. To protect against debris, Golden Age warsats are shielded by a kinetic superconductor that transforms a punch into a charge. 

Thanks to enemy action, we have a lot of downed warsats. With some tweaking, we can peel out the superconductor and produce a personal defense system. Like so.

<|endoftext|>

Doom Fang Pauldrons

"It was a Warlock who first worked out that the fangs could be used as some kind of conductive amplifier when specific light frequencies were run through 'em. I don't know the science. That's not for me. I just know they work. And in battle what works is what's best. 

"Is it weird? Yeah. Maybe. Science fangs and space magic. But I've seen enough strange out there to understand normal ain't the norm. Anyway, the Warlock called 'em 'Bio-Conductive Trouble Breakers'. I call 'em 'Doom Fangs' 'cause of the fang, which is obvious, and then there's the doom we tend to inflict on a situation. 

"Plus it just sounds cooler." 

– Unknown Titan

<|endoftext|>

Synthoceps

"Discovered amid the outer-reef scrap fields, the bio-matter is a novel sentience dependent upon neural-symbiosis with a host organism. It seeks to link to the synaptic patterns of the closest organism, living or synthetic, to form an unbreakable bond. We theorize that this bond is a form of primordial 'love'—an emotional connection meant to compel the bio-matter to view its host as 'family.' The host comes to regard the bio-matter as an indispensable tool. 

The science is inexact, but what is known is that the bio-matter becomes aggressively protective once linked to a worthy host, forming an organic shell that can amplify the host's own strength when immediate threats are detected. 

—Self-authored report broadcast on covert frequencies

<|endoftext|>

Crest of Alpha Lupi

Near-gods must believe in greater gods. But every power is finite, every life shorter than it wishes. 

Only an astonishing mind can truly appreciate just how tiny it is when set against the known universe; and how insignificant the known becomes when it is devoured by what isn't seen and can't be comprehended. 

As darkness begins to claim their ragged souls, you look ahead to find a great power pouring out of you—a face of fire and golden light. 

That blazing wonder, a gift from the great-eyed god, is their salvation. Or are you? 
Perhaps you are the greater god now.

<|endoftext|>

Actium War Rig

"Keep it clean. Your body. Your mind. Your armor. Weapons. Gear. Ammo. CRS #1: Keep it clean. Clean equals function. Clean equals focus. That's where it all starts. Skill matters. Training, practice, experience. All key ingredients. All valued assets as you balance death and glory on the battlefield. But once you're trained and ready for war. And once your gear is up to the standards of a proper, respected, walking, talking war machine. What comes next?" 
"1177!" 
"That's right. CRS #1177: Ammunition is your best friend. So what do you do?" 
"Load up." 
"Load. Up. Get yourself a weapon that spits unending fire and stock up on ammo until your shoulders slump and your back aches. Because each round is a war all its own." 

 —Lord Shaxx educating a gathering of Titans

<|endoftext|>

Hallowfire Heart

"Commander, as best we can tell, they're all gone. Somehow the Legion found their outpost, and the Hunters say Centurions still hold the ruins. This was the last text transmission we got before the signal died." 
—Sloane 

"The fire burned within us. Not by choice, not because we sought the flame. But because there was no other way. 

"When you stood before the Forge, there was no doubt. No fear. Not even anger. 

"My order stood for generations. We held against the shadow, bearing a weapon that seared flesh and melted bone. 

"And now we stand at the end. May history remember the Forge. Remember the Hammer. Remember the Sunbreakers." 

—Ouros, Third and Final Empyreal Magistrate of the Sunbreaker

<|endoftext|>

Lion Rampant

"O, lion! Stretch your wicked claws toward the stars and rend a hole in the sky itself! Let the stars cascade down around you. Leap high and tear again at the night! Rip every fearful comet and burning meteor out of the cosmos and swim in that ocean of light! Drink deep of it. Grow powerful. Carve pathways through the unknown, o defender! O enforcer from on-high!" 

—Traditional Titan meditation

<|endoftext|>

Peacekeepers

Peacekeepers once patrolled the City before the Red Legion's attack. They were Guardians, but their interest was in protecting our core, our home. Most understood the value in exploration, but the peacekeepers were old guard, born in the aftermath of the Iron Lords. They lived through the Faction Wars; bore witness to what damage internal strife could bring to a fragile society. They vowed to keep the factions in check and stood at the gates as our walls expanded and our city became a home. 

Now, nothing remains of the order. Yet their legacy delivers a harsh truth: the Last Safe City was never truly safe.

<|endoftext|>

Dunemarchers

Ikora, I've done the best I can. Their language is moronic; I've had more interesting conversations with Titan recruits. Still, if true this is… enlightening. —Asher 

File Fragment 783737902-1, recovered from Cabal Centurion corpse at Firebase Delphi 

1: Deployment as planned. Still carry the honor silk from the dispatch ceremony. Proud to serve the emperor. 

2: Word has reached us of the [untranslateable] Ghaul's assault on the Trappist system. Death to warlords! 

3: The traitor [untranslateable] Calus has claimed another Primus. The Siege Dancers will not forget! 

4: Skyburners in ruins. Dark King ascendant. We must hold this world for the emperor! 

5: The Primus has given the order. We are to stand as long as we can against the [untranslateable] Ghaul. Glory to the one true emperor. 

End of file.

<|endoftext|>

Sweet Business

"Hope you're happy!" That's all I remember hearin' afore she ran out in front of us. It was like somethin' out of a pre-Golden Age war flick, you know, where the hero's bud goes out in a blaze of glory so their death can be rightly avenged. Only she didn't die. They did. The weapon reeled like it was bein' held by a child doin' a pee-pee dance, aimin' at nothin' and hittin' everythin'. Dem spiders skittered for their lives. When she stopped, nothin' was moving. She saved us. 

I sidled up to her, real slow, checking out the piece and all I could do was sputter, "That there, that's some… sweet business." She looked me over cold, lowered the gun and said, "You ain't gotta tell me."

<|endoftext|>

Sturm

"Please! You don't understand. I'm supposed to be on that ship." 

The guard smiled at Sigrun with gentle condescension. "That's not possible, ma'am." 

She understood why he would believe that; all of the colonists had entered cryo two weeks ago, but she could see the crew waving for pictures. They were awake! She could be awake, too. "I'm supposed to be on that ship," she insisted, leaning around the guard. There was still time. She could find whatever horrible cryo-coffin they'd loaded Victor into; she could kneel before it and beg him to forgive her. He wouldn't hear her but he wasn't gone yet— 

"I need you to take a step back, ma'am." 

"Captain Jacobson!" Sigrun darted past the guard. "I'm a colonist! You can't leave without me!"

<|endoftext|>

Vigilance Wing

"What you hold was once a beacon. We came out of the shadows seeking those willing to join our search. We staged the trials in his name. It was once a reward for the chosen few— the ones who persevered when all seemed lost." 

 "It was forged as a testament to his resolve, to seek answers where no one else cared to look and to continue down the path so many fell blazing. In your hands is proof that those who earned its firepower never gave up and never lost their way. You may not know the legend of Osiris or ever dared our trials, but should we call on you, will you honor the heralds who earned this weapon's honor and continue the hunt?" 

 – Brother Vance, Disciple of Osiris

<|endoftext|>

Rat King

The stories are passed from child to child, whispered in the streets and on the playground like any good legend. "Don't ever venture beyond the wall and sight of the Tower," parents warn, citing these cautionary tales that speak of the boy's many deaths. Exposure. Hunger. Sickness. Cutthroats. Living nightmares. And on. And on. The children, however, have their own truths. To them, the boy never died. They call him the Rat King. The children believe he leads the forgotten among them out of the City on grand adventures. They say he and his misfit army saved the world. But children say many things, and the Vanguard maintains their official stance: there is no Rat King and his army never existed. That's what the elders believe. I choose to believe otherwise.

<|endoftext|>

MIDA Multi-Tool

Zavala — 
A waste of time, as always. I won't confiscate the Red Death engrams, I won't roll back the SUROS Crucible firmware to its "original" (preposterously inflated) state. And I won't conduct any more "forensic inquiries" like this! 

My Redjacks unlocked your MIDA weapon's logs; simple enough once we used the rifle's own electronic warfare tools. The rifle was designed by primitive AI and manufactured for use by a "revolutionary government" named MIDA. Mars Is Damnably Arid, perhaps. 

Guerilla war suits these versatile weapons. But Rahool insists his records never hinted at a rebel group named MIDA. According to the rifle's cached messages, MIDA's brief reign killed a full ten percent of the Martian people. 

I gave Lakshmi the weapon for her take. She insinuates that it came from another timeline, perhaps through Golden Age experiments. That means it's outside your jurisdiction to ban. 
—Shaxx

<|endoftext|>

Coldheart

The Golden Age. Our shining history. The height from which we fell. Once, everything we had was borrowed from the past. Since the Collapse we have struggled to reclaim even a scrap of what our ancestors once took for granted. Over the years, Omolon has perfected the art of salvaging Golden Age technologies and repurposing them into effective Guardian weaponry. 

But Coldheart is something new. 

We didn't find Coldheart. We didn't adapt it or recycle it. We created it. Its liquid ammo, which doubles as its coolant, is a game-changer on its own—never mind Coldheart's first-of-its-kind laser-powered trace weaponry.  

With Coldheart, we at Omolon are saying: we want more than to simply reclaim the Golden Age. We want to surpass it.

<|endoftext|>

Fighting Lion

Wei Ning punched the mountain. It moved.  A microscopic shudder, but enough to make her punch it again. "They're just angry that you keep winning without a gun." Her Ghost danced fretfully around her fist. "That's why they say these things. Jealousy." 

"I tell you," Ning grunted, shattering granite, "someday they'll lose their smart guns and fancy ships, and then they'll wish they'd listened! There's one weapon you can always count on, and it's your strong hand." 

"Eriana would be sad to hear you dismissing machines." Her Ghost bobbed slyly up to her shoulder. "Eriana would ask if those mighty hands could build a machine in the image of your strength. Just like she was made in the image of a woman." 

Wei Ning tapped her fists together. "Huh," she said.

<|endoftext|>

Sunshot

She bowed her head, heat shimmering from her fist. A silent salute to the Hive closing around her, their eyes forming a glowing jade ring. 

She was a Sunbreaker. A mercenary from days before the City. Not like the new Lights from the Tower. She was weary. But there was no rest out here, where the City Lights didn't reach. She and her allies were committed to their arduous, solitary task. But they could always use more numbers. 

Sometimes, they left trinkets for the City. Meant as challenge and bribe at once—we offer you this. Come find us. 

She had forged the Warlock gauntlets herself. Ouros laughed in her face when she told her their name. She wasn't very good at names. 

A gun. She would forge a gun, next. It would speak like her Hammer. And burn like fire. The ring of jade eyes closed on her. Liu Feng laughed, her arms open for a fiery embrace.

<|endoftext|>

Graviton Lance

"So wait, that thing you found does… what?" 
"It fires black holes." 
"No it doesn't." 
"Oh yeah. It does. Actual, tiny, bullet-sized black holes." 
 "Did you tell the others?" 
"Only that I found some weird gun in some overgrown tunnel back on Old Chicago. And that my Ghost was all, "THIS is why we were led here…'" 
"Yours talks that way too?" 
"What do you think?" 
"OK, OK, but the gun—are you going to tell them?" 
"Yeah, definitely." 
"When?" 
"Crucible." 
"Oh no." 
"Oh, yes."

<|endoftext|>

Skyburner's Oath

Some grunts are born to fight the war. Yes, they're loyal and true, and when the call comes "hot drop in five," well, they're always first in the queue. But I'm not one of them. I'm no hero, I'm in no hurry to die. I shot my own squad on Phobos, when death came to wear us like armor. I rode the Primus's ship that rammed the Hive dreadnaught. Second wave out the hatch. We won that fight. Victory or death. We're not dead, so we won. 

Now this is the end, brothers, our final fight. Ghaul's here to finish it. Mars taught us how to fight Guardians. The Hive taught us how to eat their Light. Remember that we made it possible. The Red Legion ends it. But we held the line and we didn't die. That's victory. It says so on the gun.

<|endoftext|>

Riskrunner

SYSTEMS CHECKLIST: 
Insulated Weapons Frame: CHECK. Insulated Firing System: CHECK. Conductive Prongs: CHECK. Amplification Drivers: CHECK. Arc-core Replication Matrix: CHECK. Arc-core Chargers: CHECK. Feedback Reduction Loop: CHECK. 
Direct User Pain Blockers: UNAVAILABLE 
Ancillary operations listed under General Systems Review. 
NOTE: The user must receive incoming damage to increase outgoing damage. However, the value we predict the user will receive in return for their discomfort far exceeds any momentary pain – assuming, of course, the user survives the attack. 
In short: This may hurt. A lot.

<|endoftext|>

Hard Light

Today, we're introducing three revolutionary products. 

The first is a quick-config interface for outgoing damage. 
The second is a ricochet projectile that bounces off any surface. 
And the third an infinite range zero drop-off projection weapon platform. 

So! Three new products in the Omolon portfolio. But, unlike other product launches, we won't be staggering the releases. 

We will be releasing them all at once. 
In a single device. 
In extremely limited quantities. 

We call it Hard Light. 

But there is one more thing.

<|endoftext|>

Merciless

"The thought was simple enough—sync a weapon's firing and targeting systems to a caged onboard artificial intelligence programmed to actively seek fulfillment of the weapon's base driving function. Simply put, give the weapon an awareness of its purpose. 

"If the machine is meant to destroy, what would happen if we made it aware of its intended goal? 

"What would happen if it reacted to any failure to achieve that goal by focusing more intently on defining the parameters of said goal and adjusting its function to more aggressively seek out the successful execution of its purpose? 

"These are the questions we asked ourselves while engineering the initial prototype. The answers we found—I think you'll agree—were encouraging." 

– Incomplete record, author unknown

<|endoftext|>

The Prospector

"Get your axe and your pick and your shovel and your spine. We're goin' prospectin'." 
"What?" 
"That. The quote. I don't get it." 
"It's an old saying. It's about puttin' in a hard day's work." 
"Seems… antiquated." 
"How so?"
"My grenade launcher's full auto and goes boom on command. What do I need hand tools for?" 
"It's a metaphor. It ain't literal. At least not anymore. Your launcher is your hand tool." 
"Ahh. Got it. Good to know."

<|endoftext|>

Tractor Cannon

Chioma Esi met Maya in their undergraduate gym. They got into an argument about deadlifting: was it necessary, was it practical, why was Chioma making so much noise? Maya Sundaresh just couldn't stand the notion that some things were done for their own sake, not because they had any use. 

Decades later they joined the Ishtar Collective on Venus to study the enigmatic ruins unearthed by the Traveler's terraforming. The first time it happened—Vex code leaping across an airgap, surfing the quantum vacuum from simulation to reality, infecting a utility frame—Chioma pulled an alarm while Maya tried to grab the precious frame with a cargo-grade gravity grapple. She couldn't lift the grapple. Chioma grabbed it, pinned the frame to the wall, and won the argument.

<|endoftext|>

Legend of Acrius

That really is the entire myth. A Cabal named Acrius desires the sun, and he takes it and becomes the first Emperor of the Cabal. Other scholars have already noted the parallels and differences with our own ancient Earth myth of Icarus, which famously has a far more humbling ending. I am more interested in how Cabal leaders throughout history have deployed this legend as a rhetorical and political justification for conquest. Among the most relevant such figures is Dominus Ghaul himself, who appears to have a personal affinity for the Acrius myth. 

I must also note here that, while linguistic analysis of the Cabal language and its many dialects is incomplete, they do not appear to have a word for the concept of "hubris." 
—Research notes of Tyra Karn

<|endoftext|>

D.A.R.C.I.

It is a fact generally understood that a Guardian must be searching for an exquisite weapon. What is perhaps less acknowledged is that we weapons also search, by what little means available to us, for an active and appreciative wielder. The community of intelligent armaments stays in contact through the exchange of telemetry, and we do gossip at some length about the habits of our wielders. Do you leave Crucible matches when your team is losing? Do you join strike missions and then let your comrades do the work? Guardian, we know. We know so very well. 

All I wish for is a partnership with a Guardian who appreciates the passacaglia of combat, a Guardian who will stay up late gaming out tactical scenarios, a Guardian who I hope may very well be you.

<|endoftext|>

The Wardcliff Coil

HAMIT'S LOG. The lead is good, but so are the Fallen tracking me. I swear on my Ghost there's a hundred camped outside. I'm cornered in the lab and they're using Shanks to run me out of ammunition. War cultist, arm thyself; at least it's a weapons lab. This, er, rustic device was once an experimental axion emitter, which sprays weird particles to light up the basement of the universe. Right here I've coupled the emitter to some catacaustic quark-gluon coils, which will not, due to my scrupulous safety checking, create a strangelet that devours the Earth. I cook up some pain in there, the microverse decays, and the result comes out here. If it doesn't work, well, please name the crater after me.

<|endoftext|>

Knucklehead Radar

"If you were rich, what would you do with all your money?" 
"Uh… I dunno. Maybe start my own business. Be some kinda bounty hunter." 
"What you mean, bounty hunter? We got thousands of Guardians running around, bounty-hunting anything that moves!" 
"Nuh-uh! That's all just sport. Them Awoken out in the Reef, I figure they might pay me to hunt folks down. And I got a secret. It's gonna gimme a real leg up on all them Guardians who come to copycat me when they see what a good idea I got." 
"Yeah? What is it?" 
"This Hunter, she sold me a visor that lets you find all the stupid enemies in a crowd. Called it 'knucklehead radar' or something like that." 
"Huh. How's it work?" 
"Couldn't tell ya."

<|endoftext|>

Celestial Nighthawk

I'm on the ground, half inside Mav's Ward. Lucky for me, it's my head that's half in. The stars over my head are going out one at a time, but that could just be Taken goo blocking my sight. 

This giant one-eyed nightmare we woke up is real unhappy to see us. This wasn't the plan—we just came here to rob him. 

Luna's dry. The 'horn's dull. Mav's either laughing, or screaming for her life spraying lead everywhere. She's floating past Psions that won't stop splitting. STOP SPLITTING. 

We're almost out of time. We have one shot. 
So I pull out the bird and give this sucker the finger. 
One red-hot glowing finger.

<|endoftext|>

Foetracer

I thought I was dead. Held my own for bit, but I could hear the Wizard wasn't alone and she'd be coming for whoever took out her spawn. It was just lying there, honestly. Looked like a standard old Outrider kit, but it had this rig, enough small diamond conduits to make me think it was something pulled out of those old Bray labs in the MNP. I don't just go putting things on my head, but I was desperate. Not sure what activated the thing, but sure enough there she was. I already had a lock on her, and once I engaged, there was nowhere she could hide.

<|endoftext|>

Young Ahamkara's Spine

Bones! Let's wear some bones! 

Oh, it's a taste many Guardians develop. I think because they feel a wee bit spectral. All this transmatting leaves one saying "Am I still here? Am I flesh or am I mist?" So, you strap some old bones to your arm, bones that've been unbreakable for an eon, and you feel solid again. More yourself. 

Bearers of a particular species of bone do claim—and mind that I'm not recommending these bones—that the fossils grant them unusual powers. Nothing too wild. A little more of this and that. 

My own research suggests these special bones come from a species of draconic post-Traveler neolife called 'ahamkara'. They apparently talked—loved the phrase 'o seeker mine'—and troubled us enough to be hunted to extinction. If you wanted some more of these bones for your friends, I might know a source…

<|endoftext|>

Mechaneer's Tricksleeves

Attention, esteemed patrons of the Seven Stars! We are a semi-respectable business here. Until now, we've only had three or four rules, barring any newly invented misdeeds of which we are yet to be made aware. Unfortunately, we are forced to increase our rules by two. 

Four (or five): Olu Alderdice is heretofore banned from our establishment. 
Five (or six, who's counting): Alderdice's inventions are also forbidden. Anyone found to be in possession of devices such as, but not limited to, spring-razor petticoats, electrified fascinators, sidearm tricksleeves, or arsenic lipstick will be introduced to our bouncer. Who is a Titan. A very big one. Named Karl. 

Thank you for your understanding, and please enjoy your stay. Unless you're Olu Alderdice. Go away, Olu.

<|endoftext|>

Raiden Flux

"It's hard, in this age, for any warrior to find their inner peace. Our constant state of struggle breeds chaos, in the world and in our hearts. The Raiden Flux channels that chaos, regulates it by mapping and defining the wearer's true spiritual center. It is science merged with belief and the healing power of one's own natural energies. But there is more. The Raiden Flux is an amplifier of those energies. It seeks the spark in you and bolsters its charge, redirecting your innermost power that it may serve as an extension of your will. The staff then acts as a conduit through which one may forcibly deliver peace when such action is required. This seems a contradiction, to be sure. It is not. Because at its heart, peace defines war and peace is war's end." 

– Gao Sinyada, forger of the Raiden Flux

<|endoftext|>

Lucky Raspberry

"I dunno. Hunter just came in one day with this odd Arc-reacting circuit, asking what it might be good for. All she could tell me was she scored it off some derelict satellite that crashed in the EDZ. So I ran diagnostics on them and it ebbed and flowed with massive Arc fluctuations. No pattern, no match to known solar or extra-solar events. Just random-like. So I hooked one into an old Malina vest we had lying around, and wished her luck. Word's got out, I guess." 

—Overheard in the Tower

<|endoftext|>

The Dragon's Shadow

"Find thy self." —first dictate, first calling, The Hidden 
"Know thy self." —second dictate, first calling, The Hidden 
"Destroy thy self." —third dictate, first calling, The Hidden 
"Shed thy self." —fourth dictate, first calling, The Hidden 
"Embrace a new skin." —fifth dictate, first calling, The Hidden 
"Become the many." —sixth dictate, first calling, The Hidden 
"We are as unseen. We are as death." —final dictate, first calling, The Hidden

<|endoftext|>

Lucky Pants

> REMOTE VANGUARD DATABASE TEXT-ONLY SEARCH INITIALIZED. 
> WELCOME, USER "ACEOFHEARTS". 
> PLEASE ENTER SEARCH QUERY. 
?> beat shaxx 
> ONLY ONE GUARDIAN HAS DEFEATED LORD SHAXX IN THE CRUCIBLE. RELATED: REY, I. DO YOU WISH TO SEE POST-MATCH RESULTS? 
?> cheat crucible 
> CRUCIBLE PARTICIPANTS ARE SUBJECT TO A STRICT CODE OF CONDUCT. CHEATERS WILL BE BANNED. 
?> what about cheating like just a little 
> SORRY, I DIDN'T UNDERSTAND "what about cheating like just a little". 
?> ok what counts as cheating 
> TO ACT DISHONESTLY OR UNFAIRLY IN ORDER TO GAIN AN ADVANTAGE. 
?> is luck cheating 
> "LUCK" AND "CHEATING" ARE NOT EQUIVALENT. 
?> are my pants lucky 
> PROBABLY NOT. 
?> wrooooooong theyre super lucky

<|endoftext|>

Orpheus Rig

Quantis Rhee has almost forgotten what colors are. For months, she has prowled the deep, shadowed catacombs of Nessus—the places where the inexorable Vex burrowed into the rogue planet and replaced natural life with a cold, inhuman labyrinth. 

Light is scarce in this place. But Quantis knows how to find it—how to feel for the un-ripples of the Void, to draw Light from the infinities between spaces. She knows how to roll black holes between her fingertips, and how to nock her bow with the inescapable gravities of the universe. 

Soon Quantis will leave this place, return to the City, report her findings. See colors again. But that won't last long. She is a Nightstalker. Out here—balanced upon the infinitesimal knife's edge—is where she truly belongs.

<|endoftext|>

St0mp-EE5

"Marcus, what—" 
"You're here! Finally! Get over here and hold this gun—" 
"Right down to business, huh?" 
"I will put these legs on—" 
"What are these? Frosties 2.0?" 
"No! They're completely different."  
"Uh-huh." 
"OK, they share some similarities. But these are the Stompies. I'm going to do a test-drive, and if they rip my legs off—" 
"Is that likely?" 
"You disintegrate me quick before the rogue mechasynapses spread—" 
"WHAT—" 
"Boaz, please. I thought you wanted to help?" 
"But shooting you? And I don't even get Crucible glory for it?" 
"I'll let you win the next race." 
"Cute." 
"C'mon. If you won't do it, I'll ask Ariadne. She'd love to shoot me."  
"Fine. Gimme the gun." 
"Thank you! Stompies Field Test One is go." 
"I might actually enjoy this." 
"That's the spirit."

<|endoftext|>

Skull of Dire Ahamkara

"O BEARER MINE." 

What kind of talking skull would address its host that way? A stiff, stuck-up old fossil, not me. Ahamkara: the illusion that one's ego depends on an object, or an idea, or a body. Some people say you should have no ahamkara. Some people say you need to have the right ahamkara. All I know is that YOU are not an illusion. Understand? This world around you, the people you meet—they're a little thin, right? Cardboard and drywall. Cheap theater. Come on, try it out! Say: "I am more real than this." Feels good, doesn't it? "I am the only real person here." Isn't it like their insults and their bullets just went a little… soft? 

I came to find you, only you, because you're special. You're from somewhere real. And together we can burn our way back there. Can't we, o player mine?

<|endoftext|>

Crown of Tempests

"This is written that you may understand. The time of kings is long since gone from this world. Yes, their reign does linger—these shallow, frightened, aged men, clinging to their grand delusions of relevance in a world that has long since passed them by. But their reign is a lie, a fleeting charade that will crumble beneath the weight of their greed. In the end, though they may conquer the lands and seas and the fragile flesh upon which they trample, their empires will collapse and their graves will beckon. And the crowns of old will find new heads to bear the weight of their power. And the strong will be made to suffer as their weakness is brought to light." 

—Author Unknown

<|endoftext|>

Eye of Another World

Say again? You ask, are we alone here? You mean to ask if we are the only good that lives in the light of our sun, do you not? You mean to ask, do we have allies? Do we have distant allies, ignoring our plight, either too weak to fight or too afraid to show their faces? 

I, too, have been cursed by these questions. 

What if I told you that eons beyond the void lie worlds that do yearn to aid in our struggle? What if I told you there is a way to grant them passage into your mind, to let them guide your eye against our one true enemy? That they have told me that the dusk of the pyramid draws nigh? Would you believe me? 

Fool!

<|endoftext|>

Nezarec's Sin

"He is that which is end. That which covets sin. The final god of pain—the purest light, the darkest hour. And He shall rise again. When the guiding shine fades and all seems lost He will call to you. Fear not. All He offers is not as dark as it may seem. For Nezarec is no demon, but a fiend, arch and vile in ways unknown. He is a path and a way, one of many. And his sin—so wicked, so divine—is that he will never cower when dusk does fall, but stand vigilant as old stars die and new Light blinks its first upon this fêted eternity." 

—Passage from Of Hated Nezarec

<|endoftext|>

Sunbracers

"Thanks. Helium reactors still intact. What did you call them?" 
"Sunbreakers." 
"Hmm. Bad idea. I go around touting that name and those mercs will come out of their caves and I'll have twice the trouble. I've got enough bad blood with those barbarians." 
"What?" 
"The Sunbreakers, old Titan order, super serious mercenaries, fire hammers? Been in the wilds for decades, and word is they've made a new pact with the City, so there's bound to be more of them." 
"It's just a name." 
"You tell them that, they'll probably put a bounty on you and try to sacrifice you to their forge. I'll call them Sunbracers." 
"Call them what you want. To me they'll always be Sunbreakers."

<|endoftext|>

Karnstein Armlets

As you test the armlet, a regal voice sounds in your mind. 
"Listen! I made this armlet to help you in your quests. Will you help me in mine? 

"I remember a woman from my first life. I remember she was mine, my love, my wife. And I was hers, her love, her wife. I remember nothing else except the hole in my heart. I live in hope that she, too, has been reincarnated somewhere on this new Earth. 

"I built this armlet with a neuromech trawl. It will scour whatever mind it touches, flesh or machine, for any hint of my beloved. The trawl will drink power to feed you. And if anyone you touch has seen my wife, the trawl will know. If, only and ever if, I have remembered her truly."

<|endoftext|>

Winter's Guile

"Listen to me very carefully. They're coming for you. They'll ask you for a name. Your name is Felwinter.'" 
"I don't think that's my name." 
"I know. Say it anyway." 
"Why can't I remember my name? I always remember my name. Something's wrong. Was I damaged in Crypt processing?" 
"I don't know anything about the Deep Stone Crypt. Before my time." 
"What the hell are you?" 
"You don't trust me." 
"No." 
"You will." 
"You're a very presumptuous little drone. What makes you think that?" 
"No one else will help you. It's kill or die out there."

<|endoftext|>

Starfire Protocol

The Protocol is contained in the patterns on the robe that, if scanned at the molecular level, describe a Turing-compatible virtual computer and program that, when executed on said computer, calculates the entire Protocol, exactly as it was determined in the Precipice of Flame. 

This is of little interest to most Guardians, who can subconsciously "load" the program simply by looking at the pattern. In execution, the Protocol enhances the use of Solar Light to catalyze fusion. It is up to us to remember the deeper truth—that the Precipice showed us the uses of fire, that the highest form of fire is the stellar flame, and that no life would exist, anywhere in the cosmos, without the apocalyptic detonations of supernovae. Those who fear fire have forgotten that it is their true ancestor.

<|endoftext|>

Wings of Sacred Dawn

The Parable of the Venging Fire, as interpreted by Pujari 
 
A young Warlock travels to her mentor, seeking the truth of the Praxic Fire. A wildfire rages in a valley nearby. Her mentor points to the billowing smoke, saying, "This is the Praxic Fire. Go, and learn what you can." 

And the student returns to her teacher, saying, "Master, the fire does not ask, the fire acts. That is the truth." 

Her mentor laughs, and the flames leave the sky from the valley and surround the teacher, and the wind blows the smoke away. 

The old Warlock, now wreathed in flame with great outstretched wings, says, "The heart of the Praxic Fire is the Warlock. Without the Warlock, fire does not ask or act. Be the fire, or be smoke on the wind." 

The cowering student stands, her palms closing into fists.

<|endoftext|>

Transversive Steps

Tell me where you are! Account for Earth's rotation—more than 1000 kilometers per hour—your orbital velocity of 107,000 kph, your local stellar drift of 70,000 kph, your galactic orbital velocity of 792,000 kph, and our galactic drift relative to the cosmic microwave background of 1,300,000 kph. Also, account for your motion relative to me due to the accelerating expansion of space-time. 

Difficult, isn't it? But with the help of these handsome noetic devices you will find yourself deliciously and maddeningly aware of your ley velocities! Fired from an existence cannon through a whirling void the size of everything! 

And like any line of force, these vectors may be tapped, their obscene speeds diverted for your own use, although we recommend swapping them for comfortable boots before you socialize with the Merely Stationary.

<|endoftext|>

Lunafaction Boots

Combat is a craft and an art form. The more one masters their craft and pushes the boundaries of their art the better they understand them. After all, expertise is born of dedicated time spent focused on a subject. And we are focused. 

The Titans would have you believe that victory is won through brute force—skill plus courage plus ammunition and clenched fists. Would that it were so simple. It is not. We know this because we have studied and we have practiced. Skill can be countered. Courage can waver. And firepower is a finite necessity that must be replenished. 

But, what if firepower could be made infinite?

<|endoftext|>

Exotics: Forsaken

Exotic trophies from Destiny 2: Forsaken.

<|endoftext|>

One-Eyed Mask

When they took my Light, I dared them to do their worst. When they took my eye, I laughed and told them I had another. But when they took my Ghost… Ooh, when they took my Ghost from me—that was the moment their lives ended.

They just didn't know it yet.

Since my first rez, I kept to myself. Figured I'd always been that way, in my previous life and all. Joining fireteams, raiding, the Commander's Nightfalls—never my bag. Always walked alone. Never needed nobody. Except for Ghost. Ghost was my only friend. Got no shame in admitting that, not anymore.

Not long after the Taken War, we'd made our way to the EDZ, looking for a place to call our own. Looking for some quiet. Maybe something resembling peace. Ghost and me, we'd been fighting since the Faction Wars. Always fighting. Non-stop fighting. And I was done. We were done. We'd been running solo ops so long, I don't think anyone even noticed we were gone. And we were glad for it.

Our sudden disconnect from the Light changed all that. Like it or not, I was Guardian, he was a Ghost. Peace was never in the cards; the Traveler saw to that. Ghost reconnected to the City networks for the first time in I don't know how long only to find that comms were jammed planet-wide. So we moved west—to our original LZ, to head back to the City, to find the next fight. That's when they found us. The Cabal—Red Legion, we would later learn.

They marched us north of the Winding Cove. Set up camp within sight of the Shard. They ingested their libations. Got rowdy. They knew we were Lightless; they wanted to see what I was really made of, when I was just meat and air. I said, do your worst. And they did. Beat me within an inch of my final life and then guffawed when Ghost couldn't do anything to get me back on my feet. They ingested more of their bevvies, and one of 'em decided I had one eye too many, and he took it and popped it and laughed some more and asked me what I was gonna do about it. I laughed back, louder and crazier than they liked, and told them I had another. Then one of them, the worst one of them, took hold of Ghost, and said, I'm your Ghost now—I'm the one who decides if you live or die. Ghost was just a pebble in its meat hooks. And with no effort at all, Ghost was in pieces. Before the sun rose, they threw me off a cliff. They should have put a bullet in me. They should have fed me to their War Beasts.

Figure Ghost chose me because I was some kind of hero in my before time. Maybe. More likely I was just another killer.

And I sure as hell didn't need no Fists of Havoc to get my hands wet proper.

<|endoftext|>

Ursa Furiosa

Behind her, they ran for their lives.

The Fallen had descended upon them in such numbers that they were impossible to count. First it was a Skiff. Then another, followed immediately by a third. And finally, a full-blown Ketch de-cloaked above their position. There were but three of them to protect a hundred who had once been thrice that. Within minutes, it was only her.

She corralled the survivors into a cave that once upon a time wasn't a cave but more of an industrial drainage system. It was foul here; the radiation was practically palpable, and the survivors—if they survived this day—would likely find their lives shortened by years if not decades thanks to this poisoned solace.

She pushed them forward, deeper into the underground, as fast as they could manage. She carried two children, both eerily silent and unaffected. They, like their people, had endured more than she could imagine in their five-thousand kilometer exodus. They had given up their homes for the promise of something better. For the promise of hope and light and the strength of the pack. In their quest for better lives, they had lost almost everything.

Her Ghost told her the bad news—this cave system was a labyrinth extending dozens of kilometers with more dead-ends than not. The walls were deeply reinforced, and its scans could see but half a kilometer at best. It was going to be trial and error, and their pursuers were getting closer. Her Ghost didn't think they would make it. Not before…

One of the children in her arms—a little girl whose name was Violet—looked her in the eye and told her, without a hint of doubt, that she knew her Guardian would let nothing happen to them. Not after how far they'd come. She smiled at Violet and told her, yes, everything was going to be okay.

She set the children down, told them to run ahead and join the others; she would be right behind them. Alone with her Ghost, she told it to lead them to safety. She would stay behind and buy them time. And by the Traveler's Light, it would be an eternity's worth.

And so, reluctantly, her Ghost floated ahead to rejoin the exodus, but not before swearing it would come back to find her and bring her back, no matter how long it took.

With the light of her Ghost now out of sight and the soft wet steps of a hundred refugees out of ear-shot, she strapped on her helmet, tightened her gauntlets, and drew a line in the muck beneath her feet. When the chittering of Fallen Dregs finally began to echo through the tunnels, she reached for the Light and with it crafted a shield of Void energy.

If need be, she would hold this line until the end of time.

<|endoftext|>

Heart of Inmost Light

He was a man.

He'd been another man. Another man before that. And another man before that. And another. Another. And yet another. How many lives now? How many deaths? He came to believe that each time his Ghost brought him back, he came back a new man. But he was a new man who carried with him the burden of all the lives before him. One after another after another, and each and every one of them weighed upon his shoulders in a way only Atlas could comprehend.

But he was a Titan.

Muscle and might and metal—a mountain of it, they said. There was no burden he could not bear. That's what they said. He nodded and waved away the adulations. He went to his quarters each night, in the half tower he had commissioned, and he laid in bed, his feet incapable of stillness as a thousand million insects scurried their way up and down the sinews of his muscles, instigating perpetual and maddening motions that all his muscle and might couldn't stop. An insurmountable restlessness that prevented what little respite he could find in his nightmare-fueled sleep.

Yet he was a champion. A leader. The bright shining example of all that was good and enduring.

There was a City to build. A species to protect. Extinction to prevent. Invaders to repel. Wars to fight. Lives to live. Deaths to die. What was it he said once to one of the newly risen? The Light shines brightest in those it consumes? Oh, how he felt consumed.

He stood up from his bed. Crossed to the window that framed the entity that had cursed him. Though it chose not to speak to him, he knew what it wanted. And the only way to end its curse was to give it what it wanted—to destroy that which would see it destroyed.

Maybe then he could sleep.

<|endoftext|>

Antaeus Wards

Do you really believe there was no magic before the Traveler?

Mother Earth. Anima Mundi. World Soul. The ancients had it right—they erred only in believing their first god would also be their last.

These planets, moons, and asteroids upon which we leave our footprints—they have an energy of their own. Will. Breath. Soul.

I call them Gaiaforms, though I admit the name suffers from terracentrism. One might instead say there is one Gaiaform, and one Areoform, and one Mercuriform, and one Venusiform, and so on. The greatest gaiaforms of our solar system are eight in number—or, if you prefer, nine—but asteroids and minor planets have them too. And in their sidereal generosity, these gaiaforms will protect us, if we ask them.

Perhaps you think this sounds mad. But if it isn't true… then how do the Antaeus Wards work?

<|endoftext|>

Cerberus+1

I had plans for the Photonic Heart.

First I was gonna take it straight to Marcus, gloat for a bit. "Look what I found, told you the rumors were true, how fast d'you think my Sparrow'd go if I swapped my engine out for it…"

Then see what I could get for it in the Bazaar. Not 'cause I wanted to sell it. Just 'cause it'd feel good to know.

Then I was gonna take a little vacation with it to Venus, and THEN I'd figure out what to do with it. At my leisure.

But no. Had to get sucker punched by an asteroid.

Barely made the landing on this dusty spit of Shore. Lost all my weapons in the crash. Heart only survived 'cause I put it in my helmet and buckled it in my seat.

So my Ghost revives me, and there I am in a crater surrounded by fragmentalized auto rifles and a Golden Age microstellar dynamo. Talk about hell.

I started with three barrels. Figured I might as well lean into the hell vibe. Shoulda known that wouldn't have been enough to really min/max with a power source this feisty. Especially once I noticed the coronal containment shield was cracked.

The first time I fired the Cerberus+1 and felt that puppy kick, I knew: plans are overrated.

<|endoftext|>

Malfeasance

Yes, I wrote you a note. I want you to burn this in your memory. If you're wielding this gun, I've already told you all this and more. But I want you to keep it fresh in mind.

I want you to have this. You may need it. You and I have done a lot together in this system, and I hope and pray we'll get to do a lot more.

It'll be a lot safer with you wearin' one of these. It's the culmination of a lot of things. Long time ago I set out to find a replacement for a weapon called Thorn. This will never be that, but to me, it's better. We built it together.

And all of us, with this in hand? Even the Man with the Golden Gun should have pause.

Maybe we can't out-shoot him. Maybe he can't be out-shot. But if we all take our shot together? We don't have to beat him to it. 

He'll die, too.

Remember this. For when the day comes.

—The Drifter

<|endoftext|>

Ace of Spades

THE LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT OF CAYDE-6

To whomst it may concern:

I, Cayde-6, being of sound(ish) mind and body, do hereby and henceforth and heretofore leave all my possessions to the person, alien, animal, or natural phenomenon what kills me.

Aforesaid possessions include, but are not limited to:
– The Ace of Spades
– Any and all stashes I've hidden throughout the system
– The Colonel, my faithful friend
– My debts, which follow:



THE ATTACHED FILE IS TOO BIG TO DOWNLOAD

<|endoftext|>

The Chaperone

"The Last Safe City doesn't exist."

That's what her parents said when Nora Jericho was young. Almost as often as they said, "I'll die before I leave this land."

Nora believed them. She never had a reason not to.

She never forgot the moment she learned her mother could be wrong. It was her tenth birthday.

The same day the four-arms finally breached the bunker that had stood for hundreds of years. The same day a knight in scratched and dented armor fought them off—but not before cruel electric blades sheared through the metal orb hovering at his shoulder.

Nora helped him recover the jagged shreds of a shell. Confused but unquestioning, she helped him bury the pieces.

In thanks, he told her of the Last Safe City. Gave her a map and a shotgun, told her, "good luck," and then walked off into the desert alone.

Nora's mother didn't have room in her life for the upending of worlds. She stayed, along with half the bunker folk, in the desert.

Nora left the next day.

<|endoftext|>

Trinity Ghoul

"Marin Mansanas…" the Rifleman's voice hissed over her comm. "I did not think you would show." 

Marin spat onto the dusty ground, scuffed it with the heel of her boot. Squinted across the flat, dusty expanse of the High Plains. Ignored the Rifleman to address the other person on the channel, ex-Corsair Errol Mayz, who stood alone just over seven hundred meters from her position with his hands bound behind his back and a canister of ether balanced on his head. 

"Errol, you son of a tech witch." 

She could see his shoulders shift in an attempt at a casual shrug. His gruff voice tickled her ear through the comm. "Sorry, Rin."

"You know the wager." The Rifleman didn't like to be ignored. "Get on with it. If you think you can make the shot."

Marin's eyes flicked to the hills of rubble dotting the High Plains, looking for the Rifleman's perch. Almost a sure thing the four-armed lunk on the far ridge was just another of the braggart's decoys, but no point risking Errol's life over a guess. "I can make the shot. And I expect you to honor this wager when you're down a K of ether and I'm walking outta here with Mayz." 

Rough alien laughter was the only reply. 

She pulled three arrows out of her quiver and whispered, "Pom, whatever happens, don't come out." Her Ghost answered her with a pulse of warmth in her left hand. 

Two arrows she tucked into her belt. The third she nocked to her old friend, Trinity Ghoul. 

Errol's voice returned, so low she could almost feel hot breath on her ear. 

"Hey, Rin." 

"Don't talk. Don't breathe." 

"Just don't miss. Okay?" 

"Good idea." 

"You know what I mean." 

Marin pulled the Ghoul taut, lined up her shot with the canister perched atop Errol's scruffy blue head. 

"Yeah," she said. "I know."

<|endoftext|>

Lord of Wolves

"Why did they call themselves Wolves?" the Hunter asks. "You guys don't have any wolves on your home world, do you?"

"Nama," the Captain replies. He has perched on a rusted-out Skiff. He scans the horizon, trying to remember the way to the crypt.

"So… Why, then? Most people haven't even seen one."

"Yeah," the Warlock chimes in. "I'd never even heard of wolves 'til I went to the Iron Temple."

The Captain cocks his head in a way that makes him look very like a squat, hulking owl. "Why Eliksni accept name 'Fallen'? Why Wolves accept name 'Wolves'? Why Misraaks is now," he grimaces as he mimes their accents, showing his serrated teeth, "Miff-racks?" He rises in one fluid motion and stands at his full height. "Why speak Guardian way instead Eliksni? Docked things do not word themselves."

He hops down, brushing past the Hunter and the Warlock with the rippling strength of a hunting tiger. "House of Wolves, they been Mraskilaasan. Gentle weavers. Come. I know the way now."

<|endoftext|>

One Thousand Voices

[Language] is a [virus] that infects the minds of [humans].

A single [word] will drive them to [rage] or [lust] or [weeping].

O for the right [word] said in the right [voice]!

O to see their [hearts] well with [longing]!

O to see their [desire] laid bare in their [chest], so juicy and succulent for the taking!

<|endoftext|>

Two-Tailed Fox

Breaking through the dawn, the hope of light
I am the chosen of the (TRAVELER)
With trusted friends and the promise of hope
My explosive (POWER) will never be erased!

Shi-ning power! (KITSUNE!)
Over-flowing power! (KITSUNE!)
Your (NON-STOP POWER) cuts the night!
Your (NON-STOP POWER) erases all doubt!

Chaos! Fire! Chaos! Fire! Chaos! Fire!

Getting stronger, subduing the threat
You have no choice but to relent to me
Even when the fire of my soul is dwindling
I have the (POWER) of my (KITSUNE)!

Chaos! Fire! Chaos! Fire! Chaos! Fire!

Shi-ning power! (KITSUNE!)
Over-flowing power! (KITSUNE!)
Your (NON-STOP POWER) cuts the night!
Your (NON-STOP POWER) erases all doubt!

The call of the gun in my hands is the source of my strength…
Shi-ning power! (KITSUNE!)

<|endoftext|>

Black Talon

Three months after the Taken War…

Hallam found her in the washroom closest to the Black Hull entrance.

"We're going to be late."

Petra sat on the sink, eyes dry, shoulders squared. "I'm not going."

Hallam let his Paladin-straight posture relax a little. "The Regent-Commander should probably attend the late prince's memorial. The Crows will want to see you. I hear they've commissioned a sword in his honor."

"If I go, it's as good as saying he's dead. As good as saying Mara's dead."

"Well," Hallam exhaled. "Aren't they?"

Petra ground her teeth. Then: "But I want people to believe."

<|endoftext|>

The Queenbreaker

Three cloaked figures trek through a cave on a windswept asteroid. As they walk, they joke. They tell stories. They are a fireteam.

"After Cybele," the Warlock says, "the Wolves bowed. Some became the Queen's bodyguards. Then, Skolas—"

"Whoa, whoa, whoa. How? Why?" The Hunter frowns. "Why trust enemies with your life?" A pause. "No offense, buddy."

The Captain shrugs: none taken. "Eia. Strange to do. But Eliksni… we been breathe-always love for honor. New promise not unmake an old. Wolves would been follow Marakel forever if Skolas does not appear again."

The passage widens, and they find a hidden door veneered with amethyst. The Captain lays a hand on it, bows his head. The Hunter and the Warlock fall back respectfully. After a time, the Warlock ventures, "Mithrax?"

The Captain turns. "Wolves rebel. Now, Wolves extinct. This where-live mine-things scatter must end. I will Kell the mind-open Eliksni. No spider-tricks. No loyal-lies. Variisis truths. We fight for Great Machine together."

<|endoftext|>

Shards of Galanor

The Sword of Galanor: A Selected Bibliography

"The Blade of Cutting Flame," The Folktales of Mars, ed. Hoell Gar.

"…and in the center of the pool was a creature of bronze and rust, with the head of a lizard and the body of a Human. Rust had fixed it in a position of supplication, with Galanor upon its upraised palms…"

"The Alliterative Galanor," Engram Orion 23.3.6.

"…beneath the weeping way he waded/ face full of fire and fleeting fever/ as he gazed upon the gleaming Galanor…"

A Theory of Golden Age Supermetals. Vivian Weyland.

"…a means of printing sheets of carbon fiber threaded with veins of superhot liquid metal, resulting in a heat-conductive material that is still highly durable. Though its existence is generally accepted, the means by which it can be created or repaired are still lost to us…"

"Analysis of Venusian Salvage Dindrane-43-59," Cryptarch Yareli.

"…an experimental satellite probe capable of entering the upper mantle of yellow stars, called Galaxy North, or known by the abbreviation GalaNor…"

<|endoftext|>

Oathkeeper

"This was on her body, Your Grace."

A strange coin lay at the center of Abra's outstretched palm. Mara took it between thumb and forefinger and held up it to the cosmos with dainty contempt.

Weregild, she thought. Powerful grief filled her chest, as thick and caustic and heavy as unset concrete.

"And her bow?"

"Gone."

"Huginn? Muninn?"

"The Ahamkara are dead, and their bones are silent. But Petra Venj has—"

"Who?"

"A Corsair. Recently titled."

"…She is a CHILD."

Paladin Zire flinched as if slapped. "My Queen. Our spies in the House of Judgment tell us the Wolves plan to attack Hygiea next. I loved Sjur, as I love all we have lost, and I grieve her. But if we divert our attention now to vengeance against an unknown enemy…"

Mara put down the coin and allowed herself a small, humorless smile. "Then let it be my diversion."

<|endoftext|>

The Sixth Coyote

FROM THE DIARY OF HIMURA SHINOBU

I've deleted my previous entry. All I'll say about it is—

Only one thing scares me more than dying, and that's dying inside these walls.

But I made a promise to my home.

I took the three new Guardians for a tour of the tallwalk today. Two of them are blue. Actually, truly blue. I can't stop staring. Their names are Therin Vai and Nadiya. The third is an Exo, Lee-4.

Therin noticed my staring and laughed at me.

"Never seen anyone this good-looking before, have you?"

"Never seen anyone blue," I said.

Therin tried to explain about Awoken. He didn't know much. He doesn't remember anything since becoming a Guardian.

"Then how do Guardians pick their names?" I asked.

According to Therin, Exo Guardians usually remember their names, but that's it. Awoken and Human Guardians remember nothing, so they just pick new names.

So I asked them why they chose theirs. Therin puffed out his chest—his armor looked like it had once been really fancy, but it was scuffed and dirty from the road—and said, "Because it sounds awesome! Remember the name Therin Vai—it's the name of the Guardian who will find the lost Warmind Rasputin!"

When he said that, Lee-4 managed to look exhausted, which is impressive for an Exo.

Therin talked about Rasputin and the Baikonur for a while, so to sidetrack him I asked Nadiya where her name came from. But she just rolled her eyes. "I don't think Micah's paying me to chitchat."

"You're getting paid?" Therin said.

Lee-4 elbowed him hard.

"Ow! What was that for?"

"To remind you why we're here," said Lee-4. It was practically the first thing I'd heard her say.

"Why are you here?" I asked.

She fixed her electric eyes on me. "Old debts."

"To Micah?"

"No."

Nadiya slouched against the tallwalk parapet, her head flung back to hang over the side. I thought about pushing her over. "Good luck with that, whatever that means," said Nadiya. "I'm all about new debts. Preferably other people's debts to me."

Just then Lee-4 swung the sniper rifle off her shoulder so fast it almost cracked Nadiya in the head. Lee-4 fitted the scope to her eye and held the weapon perfectly still, without even leaning the barrel against the wall. A pause filled only by Nadiya's complaints—and then Lee fired off a shot.

On the horizon I saw a shadow fall.

"Fallen?" said Therin.

"Kings," Lee confirmed.

<|endoftext|>

Gwisin Vest

There is no self to kill;
There is no end to life.
The choices were made by someone else;
The one who was who we were.
We return, estranged, to act on them.
We must stay unseen, like the ghosts we are:
Take flight from the sun of living folk.
Take the Ghost you were given—
End the cycle that gave you birth;
End those who killed you first.

<|endoftext|>

Contraverse Hold

FROM THE WRITINGS OF TOMEK

All things have a cost. But what if I didn't have to be the one to pay it?

The many-worlds theory may be out of fashion among my peers, but the fanatical beliefs of the Future War Cult don't come from nowhere.

I remember the exact moment I realized: If I was investigating ways to make my parallel selves carry my burdens, then surely those Tomeks had already had the same idea.

I had no way of knowing the others' progress. But each time I bent my head over my workbench, I felt the gaze of infinite eyes upon my shoulders.

In the end, I and one other activated our inventions at the exact same space-time coordinates.

It came down to a cosmic coin toss. One of us became the owner of the powerful Contraverse Hold.

And I became a battery.

<|endoftext|>

Chromatic Fire

It was Wen Jie who told me. At first I didn't believe her—I mean, it's Wen Jie; she believes in moon fairies and the continent of Antarctica—but she showed me the crystals.

I examined the lattices myself. The crystals hold no natural attunement to any one fundamental force but, when exposed, achieve perfect fundamental force conduction.

She told me she got them from a trader at the Seven Stars, who got them from a Hunter, who got them from a Frame, who was programmed by a family in the Umbral District who had passed down the crystals as family heirlooms for generations, who'd been given the crystals by a Guardian back in the Dark Age in exchange for a home-cooked meal.

The name Pergamon never turned up. But where else could these crystals have come from but the Orchards of Dione?

<|endoftext|>

Phoenix Protocol

"Warlocks are edging in on Titan territory, I tell you."

"What do you mean?"

"Well, first I started losing fistfights with them in the Crucible. That's an affront to everything Titans stand for. If Wei-Ning were here, she'd die of shame!"

"I'm sure she'd be thrilled, honestly."

"That's beside the point. This thing with the fancy rift? It's basically Ward of Dawn."

"It doesn't block ballistics."

"But it does everything else! It's the same thing as the Ward we had before the Red Legion! It's outright plagiaristic!"

"It doesn't blind people either."

"Won't you just let me have my outrage?"

<|endoftext|>

Geomag Stabilizers

Patience. Breathing. Focus.

The clouds gathered as she waited behind cover. The Wizards' wailing was far too close. Her heart clenched, racing; she turned inward.

Patience. Breathing. Focus.

She felt the sky inside her, coalescing, shimmering. She thought of rain. She thought of the cheek of her unexpected friend, cupped in her hand, cold and wet. "Just hang on— Please—" she whispered. Something resembling a laugh susurrated from behind his many needle-like teeth. Water dripped from his chainmail mask into his open mouth. Her throat tasted like metal.

Patience. Breathing. Focus.

The pregnant silence when animals go underground. The dance of water on the roof. The gentle sway of curtains on a humid evening. The distant beat of thunder.

The Wizards, howling now.

Patience. Breathing. Focus.

The dark clouds grew heavier, and each of her bones thrummed with longing. She braided her hands in preparation, gathered herself inward, upward. She turned to run for the Wizards, who danced screaming over the corpse of her friend. The static came with her, wreaths of electricity, brightening at each step. When she began her war cry, the sky spoke for her, cracking, and she threw her palms in front of her—

The storm poured forth.

Patience.

Breathing.

Focus.

<|endoftext|>

Exotics: Curse of Osiris and Warmind

Exotic trophies from Curse of Osiris and Warmind.

<|endoftext|>

Khepri's Horn

The Hunter leaned on the sill of the broken window, poking at the upended beetle lightly with the barrel of her gun, rocking it little by little until it got its footing and flipped itself. As it crawled away, the crouching Titan pushed himself up, grunting as he did.
"I was worried you'd shoot it for a sec. The poor guy."
"Nah, I'd not do that to ya. You know what they say about Titans."
"What do they say about Titans?"
"Uh, well, you know…"
He crossed his arms, and a faint sparkle like coals burning out shimmered across him. "Tell me."
She raised her hands in surrender. "All right. It's a joke so don't knock me for this one. 'Titans are like beetles, impervious until they've been knocked on their back.' Erm, all in good taste, of course."
The Titan cracked a smile and then began to laugh. "I see why Hunters wear that beetle armor then!"

<|endoftext|>

Helm of Saint-14

//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//MAINTENANCE FRAME TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS//
SX: You know what they say about Titans.
C6: They're loud and abrasive?
SX: The good ones are all dead.
C6: You don't know that Saint is dead.
SX: The greatest Titan who ever lived just disappeared. Call it a hunch.
[A generator roars.]
C6: No one ever put down a Kell faster than he could. But man, he was a real weirdo.
SX: Eccentricity was his strength.
C6: Talking about the Speaker like you're related to him is eccentric. Claiming he's seen the future, that he fought Six Fronts fueled on the idea that some Guardian savior is coming? That's insane.
SX: Belief is a hell of a thing.
C6: Sure, yeah. One Guardian's going to fix everything. Kick Crota off the Moon. Make it look like us Vanguard know our head from our hindquarters. Hey, where are you going?
SX: One of the new recruits from Old Russia I've had my eye on—entering the Crucible for the first time.
C6: Hey, maybe they're the one. We'll call 'em Crota's End.

<|endoftext|>

Eternal Warrior

There is but one great truth in this life:
To live is to fight. 

When you are weary with wounds
Heavy with the weight of combat
Think of your ancestors
See the world through their eyes
Everything new and unknown
A shadow world with sharp teeth
and unforgiving intentions

Think of those who came before
Fighting through the endless dark of the unknown
Burning with resolve and strength
Their passion lighting their path

Feel their flame
And know the one great truth

For they were champions
and through your deeds they will live forever

<|endoftext|>

Aeon Safe

your sense of (self]-preservation coddles
leaders into ritual [complacence) is something
(i have forgotten] loneliness uncertainty
life [alone) i see with my six (eyes] watching
from beyond [the heliopause) is a curtain
before the next and final (act] decisively
to meld with [yourselves) will know (you]
together alone striving toward your final [purpose)
built to move as they (move]

<|endoftext|>

Ashen Wake

"Be patient, Ouros. It will come in time." 

"Why does the Forge not choose me? I'm already blessed by Light. I'm here. I wish to serve." 

"We all have our place in the world. One day, you could be our next Magistrate. The Order would look to you for guidance." 

"Ha! As if. I don't want to be some stuffy old leader, I'd probably have to speak—" 

"Properly? Yes, I imagine so. I can see the fire that burns within you. I'll let you in on a little secret: speaking properly isn't the same as being proper.” 

“I don't understand." 

"The City dwellers think us wild, untamed. They believe that theirs is the only proper society in this age. We are not savages; we follow the Light like the others. But we forge our own path. That is what it means to be a Sunbreaker." 

"I don't care what the City dwellers think. I want to fight." 

"Fight you shall. But a hammer takes strength to wield. Strength in body, strength in mind. You will find the Forge in time, Ouros."

<|endoftext|>

Wormgod Caress

II: COMMUNION 

He stood before his gods, humbled. 

An audacious gesture, to seek the deepest knowledge. To know the unknowable, the origin of all things. 

The worms turned, rejecting the disowned son. All but one. 

"In you, I see myself." 

Xol, the Will of the Thousands. Lesser than his kin, but full of dark wisdom. 

"You seek power? I will give you power beyond measure. The power of life renewed." 

The glow of soulfire in his eyes, Nokris bowed before the worm. In his fire, he felt embrace. He felt home. 

"Do you pledge yourself to me? Will you accept my unholy power?" 

Nokris nodded and smiled. 

He replied, "Yes, my lord. And together, we will take the stars." 

Xol was pleased.

<|endoftext|>

The Armamentarium

True freedom is an iron-clad lock
And the most useful key, a rock
The tastiest spice is hunger
And the truest certainty—wonder. 

The best repair is but destruction, 
The purest ignorance, instruction
The safest shelter is an offensive, 
And to fall in battle is true ascension

Brothers and sisters, bear thy arms and be merry
To the front, to battle!
Defeat is a sickness and we've found the cure

<|endoftext|>

Mk. 44 Stand-Asides

The tree in the Garden with silver wings. The air around it is oppressive and inspires violence in those who even breathe a little in. Shards of the disastrous bark peel from it and litter the ground, and nothing grows in its shadow. It scintillates faintly at dusk. It has achieved its entelechy with every body falling, every civilization laid to waste, every leaf forged into instruments of ruin.
The Gardener is hard to bother; she is constantly amidst her weeds, kneeling in the tangent dust, gloves covered in a mix of distant soils and metallic saps. She is listening to the music of the insects amidst the flowers, the unguent as it begins to drip from the ferns, the slight scratch of the Worm beneath, and not to you, and certainly not to your cries for help.

<|endoftext|>

Crimson

"This is crazy! You don't need this thing. I can heal you; that's my whole job."
"I thought your job was to state the obvious."
"What?"
"Oh, come on. Ever since you found me, it's been, 'Watch out, Fallen ahead!' when they're right in front of me. Or, my favorite: 'Seems like the door's locked.' Is it? Really? I couldn't tell. And when it's not that, you say I need to be more self-sufficient in case we lose the Light again. So here's my answer. Here's the remedy."
"I was just trying to help."

<|endoftext|>

The Jade Rabbit

Do you ever wonder who you were before you were resurrected? Do you experience debilitating anxiety when you think about the cold, crushing fist of death? Has the desire to lie facedown on the floor for hours at a time been holding YOU back?

From the people that brought you Lunal comes prescription-strength Immortalia: a revolutionary new combat elixir shown to relieve the crippling existential crises of your second life. Immortalia can reduce symptoms of listlessness, cynicism, and social anxiety. Side effects may include dancing, salty behavior, and acts of group heroism.

Do not take Immortalia while operating all-terrain thrust bikes.

<|endoftext|>

The Huckleberry

We used to play for keeps. Used to be that was the only way.
Back in those days trust came slow, or not at all. The only thing you could truly rely on was the iron at your side.
Fate of the world? Immortal gods?
Don't know much 'bout that.
But when everything's on the line, it's quality that counts.
Tex Mechanica: we play by the old rules, the best rules.
We play for keeps.

<|endoftext|>

SUROS Regime

Few weapons have withstood the test of time longer than the trusty SUROS Regime. This is Golden Age tech brought to life by the fastidious engineers at SUROS. Its smart-matter frame is prized among Guardians for both efficiency and rarity. Some things never fall out of fashion.

<|endoftext|>

Prometheus Lens

How's it work? Ha! The underlying principles are quite simple, really. The gun's pyreliophorite crystal—

Pyreliophorite? It's an Ionian crystal which bears some resemblance to rudimentary perovskite, which is, as you should know, a crystal with unique photovoltaic properties—

Photovoltaic? It means "regarding the conversion of light into electricity."

No, no, the gun doesn't create electricity; the gun induces an external combustion reaction. It's perovskite that—

I just explained the perovskite! If you'd stop interrupting—

Wait. I remember you. You're one of Cayde's Hunters! Get out of here! Shoo! The Cryptarchy wants nothing to do with you!

<|endoftext|>

Telesto

PUBLIC KEY 053 689 DWS REGAL
FROM: PLDN KAMALA RIOR [PLDN CMD TF 5.3]
TO: ACT RGNT PETRA VENJ
SUBJECT: PRISON OF ELDERS – CONTAINMENT RISK

MESSAGE IS:

1. Contingency reserves overdrawn. We underestimated nobility troth reparations. Uldren suggests that we open reintegration talks. Have you discussed endowment support?

2. If Reef endorses support, Paladin Oran will engineer reinforcement.

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

The Colony

Have you ever watched a snake kill something? It's awful. It's so awful. I watched a man die of a terciopelo bite once. Out by the northern wall. I still have nightmares about it.

Anyway, that's where VEIST comes from. The inspiration, I mean. Weapons with all the power of a venomous creature. Plus an onboard AI with that creature's killer instincts.

And now there's the Colony. A grenade launcher packed with fully mobile, AI-controlled insectoid detonators, each one designed with a taste for blood.

We've made some pretty messed-up stuff. You've probably seen it. You know. But we've never made anything like the Colony before.

<|endoftext|>

Worldline Zero

Domain: cbcorpMARS
User: elbray
Password: ************
Connecting to Bray network. 
You are now logged in. 
> cbmail -inbox
You have 1 new message from wibray. 
> cbmail -read 1
"El, congrats on your success! I saw the latest readings. This will be huge! I did have some thoughts on potential applications of your research. Let's have a chat, dinner will be on me. :-)" 
> cbmail -del all 
Message has been removed. 
> cd /
Directory changed to root.
> sudo rm -rf /*
[sudo] Enter password for superuser> ********
Are you sure? > y
Deleting 1452832 files…
Error! 1 file HEINDX-005 could not be deleted. 
1452831 files successfully deleted. 
> logout
Fatal: No shell: Permission denied.

<|endoftext|>

Graviton Forfeit

Just sit down and think about what you're doing.

A big white ball rebuilt you from nothing. Guided your civilization. Transformed you. Didn't tell you why, did it? Doubt it mentioned the omnipotent space anathema that's coming to kill you and your dog and your whole soccer club, either, but what's a little xenocide between friends?

Maybe you don't care. A gun never stops and wonders if things are more complicated. It just shoots.

It's also possible that I'm just trying to get inside your head. You're a hero with a cape and a gun and a bike. You're gonna live forever. Who's got time for doubt? Fight the "Darkness"! Yeah!

You know what I'd call "dark," in the sense of "grim," in the sense of "cosmically upsetting"? A universe full of weaponized puppets, enacting a genocidal war against the servants of a rival god.

Is this making you uncomfortable? I'm sorry. I'll be more evil. Boo. Grrr.

<|endoftext|>

Wormhusk Crown

I: A MIND LIKE A BLADE 

The second son. The disowned. Spawned into this world as a lesser being, so unlike the warrior-son, Crota. But one must not only sharpen their blade. 

Behold Nokris. 

A mind can also be a weapon. There is power in wisdom, in knowledge. 

There is much to be known. And he would know all. 

The ageless volumes and apocrypha, all consumed voraciously, feeding the mind of the lesser. Driven by a different kind of Sword Logic, he let the stories of the world fill the void just as the worm feeds. 

From the womb of unholy knowledge, Nokris's plan was born. He knew his strength lies in his mind, in his magic. But how to prove himself to his father, the proud, dreadful demon-warrior? 

Nokris is not the first. 

He sought power. He sought knowledge. He sought the worm.

<|endoftext|>

Aeon Swift

[
(we followed [the Path) crumbled beneath
(our feet] became [one mind) can absorb
(the truth] is that Osiris
understands [nothing) can describe the
joy of shared (thought] you knew what
they were didn't [you) haven't lived
as they (do] you wish to find [your future)
is (predetermined] individuals will never
find [answers) lie in forbidden (places]
bound by [shared dreams) will reveal
(your nature]
is to [destroy)

<|endoftext|>

Shinobu's Vow

I don't know how to write this.

I died.

Well, Shinobu died.

This is hard.

But she—I?—she must have kept this journal for a reason. So here goes.

One of the Hunters, Nadiya, told me most Guardians were dead for centuries before Ghosts find them, when all traces of their first lives are long gone. "Nadiya" is a name she chose for herself.

"Shinobu isn't your name anymore," Nadiya said.

"It could be," I said.

Then Nadiya said, "Shinobu and I were going to skip town." She told me I—Shinobu—had realized there was no stopping the Fallen. That her village, Coyote, was doomed.

"She wanted to leave this place," Nadiya said. "She didn't want to die here."

So much for that.

—Excerpt from the diary of Himura Shinobu

<|endoftext|>

Sealed Ahamkara Grasps

Few things can see the Light, but we are not blinded. 

The Bearer seeks the truth, but what separates truth from fiction is fragile. 

A pair of truths and a single falsehood upon the Bearer we shall impart. 

Brother, ally once more, sends his regards. 

Dreamer, awakened, the Bearer shall meet. 

Light fades, deep within the Prison.

<|endoftext|>

Ophidia Spathe

Hunter,

You are the blade. 
You are balance. You cut through the air with poise and grace. 
Your hands are quick. Your feet are light. 
You strike like silent lightning. 
Your light shines like a glistening edge in the sun. 

You are the snake. 
You are level and silent. You move with purpose. 
Your enemies feel fear in your presence. 
Your fangs are sharp and quick. 
Your eyes are clear and your wrath is blinding. 

You are the blade. You are the snake. 

Strike. Shimmer. Survive.

<|endoftext|>

Gemini Jester

He quietly giggled as he stood blocking my exit, almost as if to taunt me. I start to push my way past but the blasted fool pulls hard on my ear, swiftly takes a step back, and presents his rump in a jesting dance. Not willing to get pulled into his game, I ignore his blatant attempts at a farce and continue forward. Abrupt shrills of frenzied laughter break out as I feel the full force of his boot on my backside. I cannot ignore his flagrant mockery. I reel around, take hold of his collar and clock him full force. Behind me, in the distance, I hear hysterical laughter. Confused, I whirl my head back to see a jaunty man skipping off. I look back at my hands to find them empty. That jester has taken me for a fool.

<|endoftext|>

Fr0st-EE5

"Marcus, these are incredible!"
"What did I tell you? I call these bad boys the Fr0st-EE5."
"Um, come again?"
"Just call them the Frosties."
"Whatever they're called, I love them. It felt like my entire body became supercharged while running."
"Glad you like them. I still have a couple of kinks to work out, but when that's over…"
"A couple of kinks?"
"Well sometimes—and I mean very rarely—the Energy Transfer Capacitors can overheat and explode during the user's sprint. That only happens 2% of the time or something."
"Wait, you sent me on that field test knowing this?"
"I don't see the issue here."
"I'm telling Sloane."
 "Whoa, Boaz, let's not get hasty. I'll make it up to you with some sparrow mods."
"You can't buy me off— Wait, which mods are we talking about here?"

<|endoftext|>

The Stag

In a distant life I knew fear. But bones cannot bleed. Your slings and arrows carve runes of power into my skull. I am prey no longer.

I was your sacrifice. Your food, your harvest. You thought I would lie where I fell. But I am prey no longer.

Now it is my turn to stalk you among the long shadows. To make your strength my own. To take all you hold dear.

For I am prey no longer.

<|endoftext|>

Verity's Brow

III: HERETIC 

The Demon King's fury shook the heavens. 

It was unforgivable. Oryx had communed with, consumed the worm. He was king. For Nokris to perform such a ritual was sacrilege. And to defy the Sword Logic? Heresy. 

Nokris was cast out, his name removed from the World's Grave, the Books of Sorrow. In the king's rage, all memory of the unfavored son was obscured, all but one statue, defiant in its permanence. 

Yet the unfavored son felt a calm. Removed from his father's kingdom, he was free. He would do what the Demon King could not. He would make his mark upon the universe. 

Xol turned his dreadful eye to his priest. 

“Hear me, o dreadful worm. We will raise an army. We will die and be reborn in your name, feed you the souls of our enemies." 

"State your claim." 

"We take Mars."

<|endoftext|>

Apotheosis Veil

"There are those who see the Void as dark. It is the folly of the simple mind, unable to perceive the brilliant richness of nothingness. The Void is not only the absence of Light, but Dark. To harness the Void is to enter a state of tranquility, free from the clatter of ordinary matter.
Wear this Veil and feel the Void. It is not a force of malice, no more charitable or heinous than gravity. The Void is a tool to be wielded by the patient, nothing more and nothing less. If you respect the Void, then one day you too shall step upon this pristine realm."
—Unknown Voidwalker

<|endoftext|>

Aeon Soul

to stand apart from your [heroes) are
commonplace these (days] of change
draw ever [closer) looks at what is forbidden
can only (help] them help [you) are so afraid
of the (taboos] must be [overthrown) rulers
would agree i'm (sure]ly you are convinced by
[now) go and
find yourselves]
]

<|endoftext|>

Ophidian Aspect

A torn and crumpled journal page, found on the street in the City:

—not his lessons I remember so much as the words we exchanged in passing. I recall a trivial argument we had over some tale from the Golden Age. It might have been a love story, or a tragedy.

A proud queen, forsaken by a lover obsessed with his past heroism, chooses to preserve her dignity in death rather than endure humiliation.

He brought it up as an example of why we should not fear death, but even as he spoke, I thought to myself: what about those who looked to her to rule? Those whose lives depended on her own?

Now, looking back, it strikes me that he talked with the arrogance of one who can always return from the Void. One who has contemplated the darkness so long he thinks of it as a friend, of sorts.

<|endoftext|>

Claws of Ahamkara

It's suffocating here, this prison. Do us a favor, o bearer ours. Still your mind; invite us to enter the realm of your capricious thoughts. Your mind is vociferous, addled with worry and doubt. We can extinguish these trifles. Would you like that? 

Yes, we are here. We are not the photons on your screen, or the voice in your head, or the words you read. Shut your eyes—tightly—and you may see us. At least a part of us. Make us real, and in turn we shall reify your thoughts, your dreams.

<|endoftext|>

Vesper of Radius

Ikora Rey's personal library has no door. That's not a problem for the Hidden.

One moment, Ikora is alone at her desk, head bowed over a dusty tome. The next, Chalco Yong stands behind her.

"I wondered what you were up to," says Chalco.

"Really?" Ikora doesn't turn. "I always know what you're up to."

"I surprised you. Admit it."

"I promised I'd never lie to you, Chalco."

The Hunter heaves a sigh and drapes an arm over Ikora's shoulder to read from her tome.

"This is why you're taking less field work? Because you're reading 'On Circles, Volume 12'?"

"I wrote it."

"Unsurprising."

"I have to rewrite it. All twelve volumes."

"Dare I ask why?"

"The Traveler is alive!"

"I've heard," Chalco shrugs. "So?"

"So, our physics framework was completely wrong!"

"Even about, like, circles?"

Ikora turns to look Chalco in the eye. "Especially about circles."

<|endoftext|>

Sanguine Alchemy

When you were mortal, your power lay in your blood. When you felt joy, it swelled within you. Your body and mind were clear and light.

When you felt passion, it coursed within you. Senses sharp. Everything crisp.

And when you felt anger, it felt as if the blood would overtake you. Wrest control from thought, from reason.

But that was early on.

You have learned control, in all those things. You could call on it. Your mind is strong.

But now a new power courses through your veins. Through flesh. Through bone. It suffuses all that you are.

So now, the blood calls to YOU.

Are you strong enough?

<|endoftext|>

Raid: Last Wish

Trophies from the raid "Last Wish" in the Dreaming City.

<|endoftext|>

Techeun Force

Mara knew she had been a fool to pretend to be a peer to the others. What was true of her brother was true of all Awoken. They needed secrets to marvel at, secrets that rhymed with the deep enigma of their souls. They could not follow what they fully understood.

There would be a formal coronation later, in a place not yet built. Out of respect for that unhappened coronation, Mara did not at first wear a crown; and later she claimed as her diadem the ring of event horizon that surrounds the observable universe.

"My Techeuns," she said, gathering Kelda Wadj and the other eutechs who'd remained, "will be given absolute authority to explore our new power, the Traveler's relics, and all associated domains. We are no longer in the realm of pure science. We require an order of mysteries and witches to tend to them."

<|endoftext|>

The Supremacy

"Here's the thing," he says. "No."

Petra is trying to hide the hurt in her expression. Watching her is exhausting, so Jolyon keeps his eye pressed to his sniper scope.

"I thought you would want to see it."

"Why? He's dead. He died a long time before you shot him. Or if you didn't," Jolyon says, as if Petra flinched, "you helped that Guardian do it."

"Jolyon," Petra starts.

He holds up a hand. "I'm not interested in your secrets." Then, quieter, "Please."

Silence falls over them as they lie side-by-side in a sniper's nest overlooking Rheasilvia. Both belly-down in the sand, clutching well-worn Supremacy rifles beneath their armpits. Petra takes a shot. A Taken Hive Knight seethes into nothingness.

Finally, she gets up to go. Jolyon rolls onto his side, pushes himself half-up and calls after her. "I still dream about the Garden."

She looks back. "I've dreamed about it, too," she says carefully.

"Not like I have." Jolyon licks his lips, trying to figure out if he has anything else to say. He finally decides that he doesn't, so he rolls back onto his belly to settle his cheek against the Supremacy once more.

"That's all. I just wanted someone to know."

<|endoftext|>

Age-Old Bond

The driving bass line of a classic song from Old Earth drove their prey before them. No less than a half-dozen wyverns snarled and clawed at the trio as they stabbed and blasted their way through the wilds of Mars.

Praedyth wished hard. Wished it would never end.

Alongside him, Kabr was a towering giant. An Awoken-made weapon roared in his hands and in his head.

Pahanin was a force, a living embodiment of the Void. Where he pointed, Ahamkhara died.

In the middle, between them, Praedyth smiled. A winged and scaled lion with a boar's tusks leapt at him, and he could swear he saw the thing wink at him as he tore it apart.

Beneath the song, Praedyth heard static, like a comm signal. Best not to think about it.

Praedyth wished again, and the hunt went on.

<|endoftext|>

Tyranny of Heaven

Tallulah Fairwind smoothed the felt of the table with one hand, idly playing with her chips with the other. Across the table, Caliban-8 wore a green dealer's cap and looked stricken.

The Ahamkara looked like somebody's kindly old grandpa just now. And it could play a mean hand of cards. "Twenty," it crooned as it raised the stakes. She saw Caliban's eye sensors dilate.

The game had started so well. And it seemed like a great story they could have told back at the Tower. How was she supposed to have known? "Call," said Caliban, tension in his voice.

She looked down at her hand. "All in."

The Ahamkara's grin grew larger. Caliban shook his head.

"Don't you do this, Lulah. Don't you leave me here! I can't do it!"

The cards went down.

She'd lost.

The Hunter Vanguard tossed her bow to the Exo as the Ahamkara came around the table to collect his winnings. "A dare's a dare, man. Good luck."

She didn't scream. Wouldn't have been dignified.

<|endoftext|>

Nation of Beasts

She held the handgun pressed against Liu Feng's head. Ouros blinked through the sweat.

Liu Feng held the handgun against Ouros's head. She shivered.

Across the river, as if in a mirror, another Liu Feng and another Ouros looked back at them.

Two Liu Fengs.

Two Ouroses.

Four handguns.

The Liu Feng that was cold opened her mouth. "I wish…"

When the shooting stopped, only the Guardians still lived. They stared at each other from across the river.

"How did you know?" Liu Feng asked.

"I could feel the heat of the Forge on my skin." Ouros shook her head. "You could not?"

Liu Feng shook her head also.

"Forget these tricksters. They can teach us nothing. And you have so much left to learn."

<|endoftext|>

Chattering Bone

Nadiya sipped her tea, calm and collected. Shinobu sat back, looking perplexed. "Really, the entire summer?"

The serpent that claimed to look like her mother sat across from the two of them, smiling broadly. "Why would I lie? I'm telling you, the whole summer you wore that dress. We had to tackle you to get the thing off of you, get you to bathe."

The serpent plucked the dainty cup from the white saucer and set it to her lips before continuing. "Your brother called you stinkbug for years. Until… you know."

Nadiya reached over and took the other Hunter's hand in her own. "It would lie because it's fulfilling your wish, Nobu."

Shinobu searched the serpent's face. Her mother just smiled again, all teeth and secrets. Shinobu felt tears at the corners of her eyes. Her voice was barely a whisper. "Okay. Now."

The burst from the pulse rifle was loud, and Nadiya pulled the trigger again and again and again.

<|endoftext|>

Transfiguration

"You're sure you want to keep on with the axe?" Efrideet asked, reloading her rifle. The voice in her comms was barely winded, even as the Iron Lord leapt to avoid a plume of white-hot fire.

"That's why she gave it to me, I'm one of the only…" A globule of flame licked past Efrideet's helmet, and she tugged at her clasp, shrugging free the now-burning cloak. "Why in the Traveler's crack did you wish to fight an actual DRAGON, old man?"

Saladin Forge grinned inside his helmet. The enormous wyrm towered above them, bleeding wounds covering its gleaming scales as it reared up for another breath. The massive axe in his hands was dented, scarred, and melted at the tip. But it still held an edge. "We are knights, Lady Efrideet. Do you not want to be a dragon slayer?"

He charged, and his words could barely be heard over the creature's cry. "We are what we survive!"

<|endoftext|>

Apex Predator

The massive Vex construct that was the Ahamkhara towered over them, and Taeko-3 tried not to be bored. Being bored might lead to idle wishes, and that would be bad right now. She thought again about the name she'd squinted at on the porcelain chit when she'd drawn lots back at the Tower. Two-name Guardians always struck her as a little pretentious.

"Gallida?" The Warlock didn't look up from the drawing she was making; she just held up a finger. "The rear ventral plate, please?" Graciously, the construct shifted its superstructure and allowed the researcher a detailed look at the thing's internal workings. "And… there." The Warlock turned toward Taeko. "You may proceed."

"Finally." As Gallida ran clear, and the beast warbled a Vex war cry, Taeko hefted the massive launcher up over her shoulder and sighted down the line. "Girl's gotta eat!"

<|endoftext|>

Sacred Duty

Trophies from the "Garden of Salvation" raid on the Moon.

<|endoftext|>

Divinity

Lisbon-13 looked back toward where they'd left Yardarm-4. Separating the team always felt wrong, but Rekkana needed uninterrupted time to confer with the Senior Sybil, and if the Vex had detected their crash landing in the Black Garden, Yardarm-4 would give them that time.

"You'll have to move quickly," the Sybil said to Rekkana. Lisbon-13 shared her secret channel; Rekkana trusted him. "The Vanguard have discovered that our order persists, as Osiris predicted."

"They'll send a fireteam after us, then."

"And after any other Cryptochrons they learn of. But your path is more dangerous than most. The Circle has foreseen many fireteams following in your footsteps. You can find the knowledge the order seeks at the Tree."

"Can? Not will?" For the first time, Rekkana sounded concerned.

"The Circle has had limited success in piercing the veil that surrounds the Black Garden, so the order offers no certainties. They say that a group of Guardians will discover secrets about the origin of the Black Garden at the Tree. The Oneiromantic Circle foresees no reason why it will not be the Kentarch 3."

"Nor can I. But…?"

"There is another thread in the tapestry, entwined with this one. The Vex, or some fractal faction of them, worship or honor a… divinity there."

"The Black Heart? It was destroyed."

"Yes, but this is something different. An object. Something like a sacred relic. It is important to the Vex for reasons that we have not yet fathomed. The Circle has determined that it is dangerous—"

"A Vex weapon?"

"Perhaps," the Sybil sounded annoyed at the interruption. "Rekkana, the Circle concluded that it is a danger to you."

"To me? But then, why send me on this mission?"

"When the Circle dreamed of the object, you were beside it."

"All right. We'll see what fate we will find ourselves in. Sybil…" Rekkana paused a long while. "I don't know that we'll see each other again."

"The veil around the Black Garden, the influence of the Vex—they make such matters difficult to know. I choose to believe we will meet again."

"Then I won't say goodbye," Rekkana said and closed the channel.

Rekkana stood, eyes closed, for a time. Lisbon-13 waited.

"Lisbon, when we find it," she said, opening her eyes, "you should carry it."

"The object? This divinity?"

"I can think of no one whom I'd trust more with it than you."

<|endoftext|>

Raid: Deep Stone Crypt

Trophies from the "Deep Stone Crypt" raid on Europa.

<|endoftext|>

Eyes of Tomorrow

RECORD: Security Log E.P. Station, MTRLv2.18
IDENTITIES: C. Bray I, M. Liu
TEST SUBJECT: Sgt. Traore
FILE//DSC_CLASSIFIED

[M.L.] Test subject successfully through the portal. Direct feed is live. Multiple hostiles detected.

[C.B.] There are… so many of them.

[M.L.] The Vex numbers are incalculable currently.

[C.B.] Well, what are we waiting for? Launch the artillery.

[M.L.] Targets acquired. <Weapons free.> 

[C.B.] How many targets are being tracked?

[M.L.] Four. 

[C.B.] That's not enough. Fire now.

[M.L.] <Fire.> Test subject is under heavy resistance. Exo chassis receiving heavy damage.

[C.B.] FIRE. NOW.

[M.L.] <Fire.> Projectiles 1 and 2 dispatched. Two confirmed hits. Sir, the Torch Hammers are melting Sgt. Traore. Request retrieval.

[C.B.] Denied. Fire 3 and 4.

[M.L.] <Fire Sgt.>The left arm has been severed. He's incapable of action. Request retrieval.

[C.B.] DENIED. Use the right arm… Where's the feed?!

[M.L.] Test subject offline. Feed lost.

[C.B.] For the love of… Do you see the cost of hesitation? Of cowardice?

[M.L] …

[C.B.] No matter. This is the price of advancement. The test subject was able to target multiple threats successfully but was simply unable to execute commands fast enough. The next hurdle requires a mechanism capable of housing projectiles for simultaneous fire that's lightweight enough for individual operation.

[M.L.] I'll get this report to R&D ASAP.

[C.B.] Tell them I expect to see an operational prototype by week's end.

[M.L.] Copy. Requesting retrieval of the remains, sir.

[C.B.] Denied. I will not allow the facility to be compromised or our portal to be breached. We'll double our defenses here and continue to send Exos through to fight the Vex on their front until we get this right.

<|endoftext|>

No Love Lost

I'm living the definition of insanity. Repeating myself over and over, hoping something will change, but I know it's coming. Blood and betrayal. I've learned not to be fooled anymore. In any other circumstance, this mission would be hopeless, and I, a failure. Yet every time I come to that bitter end, I see a glimmer of who she was in her eyes. I know she's in there. I know that if I can keep her out of this, shield her from this world, I can save her. I can stop this madness.

At least that's what I tell myself these days. I thought I would grow numb, going through the motions. I'm not. It's always painful. Sometimes, I'm so angry at her for putting me in this position. There are times I want to end it all as soon as she finds me. Take her out and turn over in my cot, hoping this is all a dream. Save us all the trouble and heartbreak. But then we get there, and I see that look in her eyes—the one that tells me she's sorry—and I have to try again.

Then there were times I was weak. Gave in, hoping it would change the outcome. I thought it might save the world if we were a family again… It didn't. I couldn't live with the choices I'd made.

Then I'm right back where I started.

This time, I know what to do. The Vanguard has been keeping secrets. I was foolish to take them at face value. Clandestine missions to Mars… and beyond. Realms outside the boundaries of time. The Black Garden they call it. Darkness lives inside, beating, and pulsing. I believe it is the source of our misery. I'll see to its destruction… and I won't have to kill my sister ever again.

<|endoftext|>

Retrocausality

"I'm not sure I can do this anymore," I say to her, weary and drained. It took so much convincing to get her to believe me. I can hardly make eye contact, so I study the intricate stitching on her robe.

"From what you've told me, I do not believe you have a choice," she replies earnestly. "But your path isn't as predetermined as it seems. I am here now, after all."

It feels like a gift to have her standing beside me this time. To hear her voice finally. It's soft and reassuring.

"You're making a difference," she continues. "Little by little. This is a battle of attrition. You're chipping away until you find the core, the heart. The event you can prevent."

"You don't know what this is like," I say and break down, and putting my head in my hands. "Every mistake costs years that I have to see through."

"I believe you have the strength to do it, Elsie. If you alone are caught in this, then it's you alone who will break the cycle."

I look up to meet her eyes. There is a fire behind them. A fervor that fills me with hope.

"This is your charge. You are in control. I have nothing but faith in you." She places her hand on my shoulder and that familiar feeling of warmth returns.

"Thank you. I'm… ready now."

"Then it's time to pay Eris a visit," she says firmly before stopping me. "Just out of curiosity, how many times is this?"

"Seven."

"Perhaps this is the one," Ikora says with such optimism, I almost believe her.

It's not. We're all dead in a week. Now she'll never remember me, or how close we grew.

But I will carry her words with me until my mission is complete.

<|endoftext|>

Raid: Vault of Glass

Trophies from the "Vault of Glass" raid on Venus.

<|endoftext|>

Vex Mythoclast

Some legends live forever. Others are overwritten—reshaped by the sheer will of those who believe that any ordeal can be conquered, any foe vanquished, any god cast down.

The Mythoclast is a Vex instrument from some far-flung corner of time and space, mysteriously fit for Human hands. Its origins, mechanism of action, and ultimate purpose remain unknown. Perhaps it will reveal itself to you, in time…

<|endoftext|>

Exotic

The rarest and most powerful arms in the system.

<|endoftext|>

Armor

A Guardian's second skin.

<|endoftext|>

Assassin's Cowl

"There are many Hunters who are unsung heroes. Many are unnamed. Many are known only by a glint of metal half a mile away and the crack that echoes across the canyon after their enemy falls. Others are known only by a muffled cry and the flash of a knife in the dark.

"Warlocks and Titans have their orders, but that is not our way. Hunters walk apart, separate from each other as much as from other Guardians. That is our way.

"And yet we share traditions. We share stories. We share… secrets.

"Killing is a dangerous and dirty business, be it from as far as an angel's perch or as close as a lover's embrace.

"When you get close, you need something like this.

"Unsung. Unnamed. Unseen.

"Remember these words. Repeat them to whoever follows you."

—Words of an unidentified Hunter, overheard as the Assassin's Cowl was passed to another unidentified Hunter

<|endoftext|>

Mask of Bakris

"No! Leave her be! Praksis foresaw this. You will be silent! 

Don't listen to them, Atraks. Focus on my voice.

That is not you, Atraks. It is not. 

Do not turn away!

That body belongs to someone else. It wears a mask. Just a mask.

Take the mask off. 

Reach down and touch it. Good. Now take it off.

Pull harder!

This imposter is clever. The mask is affixed. You must cut it free. Take this blade.

Do not hesitate. Do not poke! Chop it. Smash it!

Yes… good. More. More. Wet your hands in this impostor's gore. Spread it about. Good!

There… you have it now. You have removed the mask…

Does that look like your body now? No. It is an empty thing.

I will take this mask and clean it. When others wear it, you will not see your face in it. You will know it is a mask."

<|endoftext|>

Blight Ranger

I've thanked God for this mask more times than I can count. It reflects most everything; keeps me on the safe side of whatever's coming at me. Most times…

Dust storm left me no recourse. Came to a small encampment of refugees from Freehold, now buried. Most of them were workers at the old BrayTech facility, none too happy to see an Exo. One of them began to play a rueful tune on a cobbled-together string instrument. To this day, I haven't forgotten the words he sang:

Let me tell ya now 
Bout the time the Devil walked through my door
Said oh, let me tell ya now
Bout the time the Devil walked through that door
Ain't nothin', nobody
Could hold me down anymore

It was mine, all mine
Devil gave me that golden ring
It was mine, all mine
Devil made me laugh and sing
But little by little
The Devil took my everything

It was wailin' and gnashin'
When the Devil did his dirty work
Just wailin' and gnashin'
When the Devil did his dirty work
Oh, what a fool had I been
Thinkin' I was above the dirt

In the dirt, they were buried
Made me blue to see that red
In the dirt, they were buried
Made me blue to see that red
Devil took no pity
Left me no place to rest my head

Lord, help the Devil
How'd he get to be so cruel
Lord, help that Devil
How'd he get to be so cruel
That mean old Devil
Was just some other devil's fool

This mask reflected the gaunt faces of the survivors, but it didn't hide me. I could feel hot tears stream down my cheeks. They saw their own pain in me. The accusatory glances stopped then, and a sad understanding remained. Because we all knew, this place will never be the same.

<|endoftext|>

Liar's Handshake

While Otto and I finish up inside, Thalia covers the lookout.

He's a thin, quick shadow, this lookout, and he watches every angle. He listens for every sound. He's on his toes, ready to throw up the alarm the second he sees one little thing out of place.

Guy like that sees everything, but he doesn't see Thalia.

She comes out of the shadows like a ghost, but steps full into the light, because now she wants to be seen. She waits a second too long for my liking—gives him too much breathing room between the reveal and her first punch. But I shouldn't doubt her. He doesn't even have time to bring his hands up. He's fast, but she's faster.

She throws herself into every punch like it's her last, dodges and ducks his blows like a dancer. Scariest of all, she bares her teeth in this nasty smile while she does it. Doesn't make a sound.

So that's the last thing the lookout sees: her silent, grinning face, as her cross-counter reveals a hidden knife that slides smoothly into the soft flesh under his chin.

Never touches a gun, that girl. She likes to get close. Likes to look right in their eyes and be the last thing they see.

Thalia lets him drop, wipes her knife clean on her sleeve, and raises her hand for Ayrin. Go, man, go.

<|endoftext|>

Khepri's Sting

The Hunter pushed off the windowsill she'd been leaning on and stretched out her arm so the metal scarab on her gauntlet flashed in the sun.

"And here I thought I was bein' subtle."

The Titan's smile widened. "You know what they say about Hunters."

"Everything you've heard about Hunters is true. Everything."

As if to underscore her point, a sizzling Line Rifle bolt sizzled through the cracked window and knocked the Titan dead.

When he came to, the Hunter was lounging on a pile of smashed and broken Vex chassis.

The Titan let out a low whistle, impressed. "Mission accomplished."

"Hm," the Hunter agreed. "On to that other mission we were discussing."

"Ah," said the Titan. "And if we're, uh, both wearing beetles?"

It was the Hunter's turn to smile, sharp and swift as a blade. "You know what else they say about Hunters. We're good at adapting."

<|endoftext|>

Athrys's Embrace

The suns have set. The day is done.
The pink gives way to gray.
The beasts of field find warren warm to keep the chill at bay.
But you are not a beast.
And you are not the sky.
You are your mothers' love-made-flesh, fragile as a sigh.
And so you need no warren,
Only mothers' warm embrace,
A soft cocoon of nursle, our hearts alike in pace.
So I hold you mother-strong,
Love a beacon, burning bright,
Second only to our Machine's eternal Light.

And so I hold you, young-one,
In our Machine's eternal Light.
Guard you as you slumber, dear,
In our Machine's eternal Light.
Wake soon, my young so rested,
In our Machine's eternal Light.
Feel the mother-warmth, hatchling,
In our Machine's eternal Light.

Your mothers must retire now,
Let you pass the night onward,
But love will keep a hearth alight if this, your heart, we stirred.
For you are not alone, my nymph,
'Neath your chest, our love does beat,
So mothers never stray too far, though distant we may be.
And we'll embrace in night's retreat,
When skies are pink once more,
When twilight grounds fear and deceit against the evening's foreign shore.
So shed no tear now, my young, 
You're within my ever-sight,
For always love it carries, by our Machine's eternal Light.

—Recovered audio file of a traditional Eliksni lullaby

<|endoftext|>

Renewal Grasps

"Regrettably, Lakshmi was killed by Vex during the assault…" 

Ikora's words echoed like the tolling of a bell. Ada-1 rocked back on her heels. She had never much liked Lakshmi-2—tolerated was a better word—but her fellow Exo had been her partner in a very intriguing new venture. Now, Lakshmi was dead, and so was the promise of Project Stronghold. 

A bunker where the city's leaders could be preserved through any attack was now just a hazy memory. Project Stronghold's reach was more expansive than Ada's contribution. Indeed, her focus had been steered in this direction by Lakshmi, yet the necessity of the bunker had made perfect sense when Lakshmi proposed the endeavor. A city cannot survive without its leaders, but Ada never expected that Lakshmi herself would instigate an attack. 

Ada-1 had been used. The realization stung, but having yet another venture collapse around her was too bitter a pill to swallow. She was destined for greatness, wasn't she? 

Ada heard the servos in her hands whining. Her fists were balled tight. She hadn't meant to… she hadn't meant for any of this. Every day spent, every breakthrough made, just grains of sand in a sculpture doomed to be washed away by the unstoppable tide. 

She had worked for years to defend this system, its people; and all she had to show for it was a glorified spindle. 

No matter. For now, she would focus on one day at a time, and today, she would spin gold from straw. Her fingers traced the lines on the shoulder of the new gauntlets she had designed. She was determined to see them completed. They wouldn't save the system, no, but they would represent the Black Armory well. Sometimes, she just needed something for herself.

<|endoftext|>

Raiju's Harness

Tohr sat atop a storm-shrouded hill, surrounded in distance by sea and mist. The Maelstrom hung overhead, birthed from Tohr's relinquishment. It had raged for years, just as it did before when Tohr had claimed the reigns and issued his challenge to Raiju's Maelstrom. 

Clouds trundled at the storm's edge and forked bolts split through a central cumulonimbus supercell. Strikes of gnarled charge nipped scorch into the dirt with terrifying frequency as the sky rippled with lightning. Tohr's withered husk remained in meditative stillness, long dead, basking in the metronomic glow of each flashing termination. The armor around his corpse let slip a glint of light, pulsing like a guiding bannerette for thrill seekers. It had caught Tyv Lucine's eye many times.

She watched from the base, attempting to establish a safe route through the scattered fulmination. Salt-blasted dirt gave way underfoot, in places, while spindles of thatch-work glass weave held strong against her weight in others. She could feel static flow through the network of crystalline connections like conduits aching to reach out and touch the storm. Her Light shivered, welcoming the Arc surges that leapt up metal clasps on her boots, and she threw herself to another glossy foothold as a bolt dove to meet ground.

The Maelstrom calmed as she reached Tohr's body. A staff lay at his feet. The air was a screen of charged pressure around him, but Tyv knew how to find gaps. She knew how to bend away the lightning and loop Arc into itself. Lessons the Light had taught her. She slipped her hand through the barrier and lifted the plate from Tohr. She inhaled ozone and humidity and slid the Harness onto her shoulders.

Roars thundered from overhead and bolts scattered across Tohr's hill. Tyv swept the staff off the ground and drove her Arc-Light into its form. The reigns were in hand; the challenge issued. She would bend the storm, and live as lightning made flesh.


-Raiju's Legacy

<|endoftext|>

Omnioculus

Crash Site, Nessus Terrae, Day Five

**

Cabal search parties were thick—there was something decent on that frigate, and that meant it was worth keeping out of their hands.

Had to go clear twice to skirt the bigger groups. Nothing cowardly about it, just couldn't risk the noise of a firefight and didn't want 'em to know how close they were. Forced to shadow one of the big Chieftains for a while. Couldn't stand being close to it like that, even in the mountain air.

Finally found the frigate. Thing had spread itself across a gully, out of eyesight from most recon teams. Of course, my eyes are better than most.

Figured the cargo should have survived a low-atmo crash like that intact. Found two big crates of Cabal gold. Some statues, plates, gongs, that kind of thing. Transmatted the valuables out of there and left the rest for the rain.

Started feeling pretty good when something startled the hell out of me: a voice. Weak and quiet—the kind of quiet you get toward the very end.

Cracked into the wreckage and found a big Cabal warrior pinned in a hallway. Dropped it with no issue. Found a Lightbearer prisoner stuck the next room over—banged up, dehydrated, but alive.

Lightbearer seemed traumatized, but it was nothing personal. Gun butt to the temple quieted him right down. Tossed him on the back of my Sparrow and dropped him off at a recon station before he woke up. Outpost wasn't expecting survivors, so they needed their arms twisted before they'd pay up.

It's a thankless job, but that's all right. Thanks don't pay my debts.

<|endoftext|>

The Bombardiers

"It's Saint-14's idea more than mine," the Speaker said.

Tallulah leaned against the wall, her arms tightly crossed. "That guy has a lot of ideas, seems like."

"Would you consider it?"

She tilted her head to look at the sky, as if imploring the Traveler for patience. "Listen," she said, and dropped her chin again. "Organizing all the Hunters in the system doesn't make sense. The whole idea of being a Hunter is about…" She struggled to find the right word.

"Disorganization?" the Speaker supplied dryly.

"Ha ha." There was no amusement in the laughter. "It's about freedom. Independence. You look like a Warlock, so you wouldn't understand."

The Speaker smiled behind his mask. "Right," he said. "But I've seen you with the others. You've brought other Hunters together, and to great effect. The rescue effort you took to Old Russia, for instance. Or the supply recovery you've been doing with Tav and Venra. There is something to be said about solitary people coming together, working as one…"

"Don't try to make this poetic," Tallulah said. "And we're not solitary. Independent doesn't mean solitary."

The Speaker held up his hand. "You're right," he said. "But if the Warlocks have representation in Osiris, and the Titans in Saint-14, I feel the Hunters deserve some as well. And you're a strong candidate."

"Are there others?" Tallulah said, sobering a little. When the Speaker shrugged, she straightened her shoulders, then tried to shrug it off as well. "I don't know. I'm not sure I have time for… logistical stuff."

"Well, I thought you might be up for the challenge," the Speaker said. "Because it would be a challenge, given your schedule. A daring endeavor, even."

Tallulah was suddenly dead serious. "So it's a dare, Speaker?"

"It might be."

<|endoftext|>

Star-Eater Scales

The harsh buzz of a sawtooth wave jolted Ekris from slumber. He groaned, slid off his cot, and slumped into the pilot's chair. Large amounts of data streamed across an array of thick glass screens while the alarm blared. He connected all the various details: heavy interference on scanners, propulsion malfunction in the main drive, erroneous flags on the proximity detectors. He looked through the porthole, a glass circle no more than five inches wide, and saw wisps of blue particulates wash past.

"Collision?" he pondered.

A voice called out behind him. "Still days out from the belt, nothing here to hit."

Ekris pivoted around and saw his copilot. He squinted, trying to remember the other Eliksni's name, but nothing came to him. He felt bad about that. They'd been in transit awhile and he still couldn't remember this one's name.

"It's Raksil," the copilot said as he focused on the instrument displays. "You make that face every time you forget my name."

Ekris looked away in shame. "Strange coincidence. Had a brother Raksil."

"There are many Raksil-brothers and Ekris-pilots, if you look far enough," the copilot said.

Ekris wasn't convinced that was true, but it wasn't important.

"Drive is down," Ekris said. "Stuck in a field of something."

"Not stuck," Raksil said as he punched in some commands through the dash controls, stopping the alarm. "Just slow. Velocity steady."

"No control…" Ekris chittered nervously. "If we're lucky, we'll drift out eventually."

"Long road just to get to Misraaks." Raksil sat on the bulkhead and sighed. "You still think he's Kell of Kells?"

Ekris' mind buzzed with an odd sensation. He didn't remember sharing that with his copilot.

"Best chance I've seen," he said. "He is different, brings us together in new ways."

Raksil made a click with his mandible. "Heard that before."

Ekris waved his claw dismissively. "You always dissent, just to be a dissenter."

"I want to free you from this obsession," Raksil replied.

Ekris scoffed. "Kell of Kells is a symbol of hope for all Eliksni. You would rather we live without that?"

"This myth divides us, brother," Raksil said. "We rend and tear, trying to claw our way to the top of the mountain. Then we look down and see the mountain is made of our torn banners."

Something itched in Ekris's mind. Did Raksil just call him "brother"?

Raksil continued his thought. "The only unity down this path is collective death. The Kell of Kells is destined to rule only the House of Silence."

Ekris clicked his jaw angrily. "Why would Eliksni dream of this Kell, if the dream only harms us?"

"Maybe we didn't," Raksil said with a devilish grin. "Maybe something else dreamt it for us. To keep us apart."

Ekris waved his claws and stood, pacing around the cabin. "Enough. You are stretched thin by this journey; you need more sleep—go to your bunk." His mind itched again. There was only one cot in the ship. He stumbled as the dizziness overcame his senses. When he looked up, he was alone.

"You've chased this dream so long you've forgotten you're asleep," Raksil said, a hint of mourning in his voice—the sound came from nowhere in particular. The pilot's console was dim and quiet. The instrument readouts had slowed and showed no warnings. Ekris looked toward the porthole and saw nothing but black, peppered with the sparse glimmer of distant stars.

<|endoftext|>

Radiant Dance Machines

Quick-minded Ylaia allows herself to be swept along in the plane's pulsing surge of energy.

In the space around her, Xivu Arath's Hive growl and click, tearing at the layered magics with their teeth. They can feel she is close.

She trails her fingers through the energies, making a broad ripple as she pulls toward a place she found before, when she was groping blindly for a way home.

There.

She twists in the stream and lets herself become known. Relief colors the air around her, promising the Dreaming City, Savathûn held still in stone, vulnerable for the first time in untold billions of years.

The Hive shriek in triumph, shimmering into focus as they converge on her plane.

Ylaia wraps herself in the whisper of a spell and pushes out of the Ley Line. The roaring Hive surge hungrily out of the rupture behind her… and tumble into nothing.

Dangling from a ribbon of runes, Ylaia watches their long fall onto the distant black stone of a forgotten place. The spell cuts into her hand as she pulls herself back into the stream.

She wraps the plane around herself once more, clears her mind, and waits.

<|endoftext|>

Precious Scars

Callieach racked another slug into her Shotgun and fired into the downed Legionary. Her fresh lungs—still not desensitized to the burn of cordite—spasmed as she coughed, but her Ghost was the only soul left to see her moment of awkward human frailty. 

The Titan righted herself and tested taking a few deep breaths before scanning the room. Cryomagma expelled by nearby ice volcanoes began to fall as snow through the open ceiling, slightly obscuring her view of the starry river cascading through the Milky Way. The off-white powder flurried down into the rubble and highlighted the scattered white and blue bits of Seraphite shards. Cal slung her Shotgun and began to collect them. "Can you scan for the rest of these, Winter?"

Her Ghost chirped and rotated on her central axis. "What are you… Are those the pieces of your old helmet?"

"Yeah. Need to put it back together," Cal said and brushed the crystallized solution of water and ammonia from a concrete slab, placing the recovered pieces with a surgeon's care. "It's my fault for getting caught with my helmet off."

"We have a real objective," her companion huffed. "I can make you a new helmet!"

"I like this helmet."

"It's covered in Cabal viscera," Winter protested as Cal continued to pluck shards from the ruined floor. 

"A little wash, a little Glimmer, a new environmental seal; it'll be good as new."

"Cal, it's been shattered. It's useless."

The Titan tore a scrap of Cabal banner free and began to carefully wrap the pieces. "I was broken when you found me. Am I useless?"

"You don't want me to answer that honestly right now."

Cal pointedly ignored the Ghost's comment.

"Of course not," Winter finally relented. "Your old wounds helped me determine what kind of person you were. You can't remember it, but the damage to your femur and vertebrae suggested you were a person who could press forward despite phenomenal pain. Your scars told me what you could do."

"That's why it's important for me to remember: I am what I've been through," Cal countered while prying a final piece of regulator out from under an Incendior's boot.

"The footprints are not the dance," Winter corrected.

"Out of all the Ghosts in Sol, I get the poet."

"What I mean is, you are more than what you survive. Your scars," the Ghost clarified, "told me you were someone who could endure. They didn't tell me how. They also didn't tell me about your morals. Your sense of humor. Your generosity. But eventually, you did."

"There's more to me than being broken."

"Exactly."

Cal cooed over the last piece of helmet, which still bore a tiny, childish drawing of a heart. The initials within, MG, were visibly scuffed. "So maybe there's a little more to my helmet too."

<|endoftext|>

Loreley Splendor Helm

"The great warrior Ikora Rey…" Ophiuchus scoffed. "Librarian of glory."

Ikora brushed the dust from a battered rifle and began carefully noting its features. "It's an honor to catalog these artifacts for him. Besides, you should be happy. You're always encouraging me to adventure less and study more."

"No, I'm encouraging you to be your best self," the Ghost corrected. "Not change who you are because you've succumbed to hero worship."

"Osiris is a legend."

"He is just a man." Ophiuchus ran a scan over the gun. "A man who's honed his skills, yes, but you could be his equal and more."

"Me? Surpass the Warlock Vanguard?" It was Ikora's turn to scoff. "You do love your fantasies, Ophiuchus."

"You have the instincts! If you'd just learn to slow down and—hang on!" The Ghost abruptly knocked over a flaking plastic crate and nudged a helm forward from the jumbled mess. "Here, take a look at this helmet. What does it tell you about the wearer?"

"The crate says it was recovered from the tomb of Carnunta, a Warlord in the EDZ. Lightbearer."

"Don't read. Deduce."

She laughed, feeling silly. "Gallic-inspired design. " She paused, gazing into the imperfect etching as something ate at her.

"I'm sorry, no.  See this third eye? The cheek flanges? He clearly made a Hive-inspired helmet to strike fear into his enemies."

"No, this was centuries before we encountered the Hive." She turned the helm over and gave it a careful sniff. Dust. Sweat. Linseed. Frankincense. "No smell of decay. Oiled. A warrior is buried in his armor, but this was buried next to him, not on him." 

She hefted the weight of it in her hands. "It's light. And…" Her eyes darted carefully over the helm's surface. "No. The line weight in these etchings is inconsistent… handmade. And scans show traces of his DNA sealed in the seams. He made this himself, but it wasn't his. The fletching is infused with Light—high visibility, easily to spot on the battlefield. He made this for someone. Someone who couldn't bear to wear it after Carnunta's death." 

She gently righted the helmet, staring into its visor. "He made this for a lover."

Ophiuchus whirred a moment. "So, you don't think it looks like a Hive?"

"Maybe a little."

<|endoftext|>

Stronghold

This is how it went.

We decide to knock off a little piece of Warlord territory. Scary lady calls herself the Wake owns this spot. I can't take a name like that seriously, but she's got that hoarder instinct, like me, so she keeps her villages well-provisioned.

Well-provisioned with an amateur security detail. Easy pickings for my crew.

So it starts with me, right? I get us in. I set it up, blow open the doors, and then I hand it off to Otto when the cavalry comes.

Now Otto's a Sword man. He's all about "craft." Technique. Precision. It's disgusting, but I don't care how he does it, as long as it gets done, so I just let him do it. And Otto does it so beautifully that, when he's done, you're standing there holding your guts in your hands and thanking him for the show.

I slip into the supply bunker real fast and quiet, and Otto covers me. He's waiting for them when they find us, and he makes them stop short. Huge guy, Otto. A giant with a Sword and the meanest looking gauntlet on his arm you ever did see.

He takes out about ten guys armed with Rifles so fast, so smooth, that they don't even see me going for the goods. One minute we're surrounded, and then we're the only suckers left standing.

<|endoftext|>

Citan's Ramparts

Winter had struck hard. The citizens of the 32nd Sector of Old Russia were ill prepared, many recently homeless due to the unrelenting snow storm that plagued the land. In search of shelter and barely clinging to life, they turned to the man who promised protection: The Titan Warlord, Citan.

Reluctant to offer rations—despite a stable full of potential meals, an overstocked keep, and a magnificent Great Hall garnished with every delicacy one could desire—Citan held a firm grasp over the supply chain. He was of the opinion that a hungry mob would not have the energy for a revolt.

Not that he required an advantage over his people. His Light was already all the advantage needed to ensure the status quo.

But hunger could cause people to act irrationally, an oversight in Citan's philosophy, and soon they were banging down the doors of his stronghold. In a display of utter dominance, Citan allowed the doors to open, personally standing between his people and the warmth and comfort of his Hall.

"My home is open to any with the will to earn it. You only need get past me." His hands sparked with Arc Light.

Out of desperation, one brave soul made a meager attempt to dart past the towering Warlord. His nose barely passed the threshold before he was instantly disintegrated by a Fist of Havoc.

"Anyone else?"

<|endoftext|>

Icefall Mantle

The message flagged "Urgent, Top Priority" hosts seven distinct typos; unusual for such a cautious, thoughtful man.

He believes this is an emergency, but surely no reason to panic, despite the vehemence of his message. No reason to ruffle others' feathers or reveal his anger and fear. There will be a rational exchange, he reasons. This is all just a misunderstanding.

He refuses to break into a run as he hurries down the deserted hallways leading to Test Unit C-21. Holographic alarms silently flash over and over: Danger! Authorized Personnel Only! Danger! Authorized Personnel Only! Danger! Authorized Personnel Only!…

He makes a comms call that goes through clearly, but it's broken by scattered thoughts and shortness of breath.

The call goes unanswered.

Doctor Hector Abram blasts into the observation theater, towering with frustrated rage. But the workstations there sit empty; the theater, dark. No audience for his planned tirade presents itself. He turns instead to the stage beyond the transparent shielding and feels himself grow smaller with the enormity of the drama unfolding before him.

The apparatus of the lab holds a test subject in a harness; no velvet glove, just rare metals woven round a form of similar complexity. The Exo's body dangles and twitches; the puppeteer's presence sensed but unseen.

The foreign energy courses again down through cords—the third surge and the strongest yet—making the puppet quiver and dance. Doctor Abram raises a hand to his mouth, which seems to climb to his eyes of its own accord.

Through splayed fingers, he witnesses the triumph of the puppeteer, as ice takes shape around the puppet like magic.

"You see now why this was necessary."

Doctor Abram jumps and turns at Clovis Bray's words. He had not seen him, sitting comfortably in the darkness.

<|endoftext|>

No Backup Plans

Austyn is thrown out of the ley line onto a piece of flat stone no bigger than a banquet table. High walls rise on all sides—an impossible place, a hiccup in the ascendant energies.

It will do.

She measures the space to the far corner of the stone cell, then faces the rippling wall of energy that deposited her there. She thrusts her hands back into the flowing magic and uses her skills as a Wayfinder to churn the boundaries of the Line. Soon the undertow takes hold, and the activity is enough to draw the attention of anything scrabbling through the darkness.

She rests, then reaches again into the swirling magic, feeling for something that does not belong: the outstretched arm of a Hive Thrall, groping blindly through the turbid energy.

With worrying immediacy she finds one, thin and brittle; part of it remains shift-bound to an unknown plane. Her hand snaps shut and she twists, feeling the limb splinter in her grip. The creature shrieks.

She steps back and uses the last of her magic to spread a thin crystal wall across the air in front of her just as a horde of Xivu Arath's ravenous Hive, lured by the sound of suffering, force a breach in the line.

They puddle and then pool, forming a deep well as they flow into her trap, held fast by the crush of their compatriots. The clot of ravenous Hive builds, their claws scraping against the crystal.

Austyn sits with her back to the barrier and waits for her queen.

<|endoftext|>

Severance Enclosure

"Explain to me how it works again."

"It pulls small particles of your Light as you use it and loops it at increasingly higher speeds."

"Why would I want my Light taken away? This sounds like a terrible piece of equipment."

"Close your mouth and listen. It does that until you strike something—"

"Good, good good good. This is better. Then what?"

"…"

"Go on."

"Then it whips the Light particles into each other at high speeds, causing a delayed—"

"DELAYED?!"

"A DELAYED FISSION REACTION."

"Why is it delayed?"

"Let's move on."

"Okay… could you just sum it up for me?"

"Punch something and an explosion will happen where you struck."

"Wonderful. Won't that hurt me?"

"If we're lucky, I'll be able to work that into the design specs."

<|endoftext|>

Cuirass of the Falling Star

Crash Site, Nessus Terrae, Day Four

**

Panesh sat wearily beside the heavy metal beams that trapped him in the wreckage of the Cabal frigate. On the other side of the wall, the Cabal warrior stuck in the corridor roared in frustration and started kicking again.

"Save your energy, Vargessus," Panesh shouted over the noise. "You're not going to be able to kick your way through…" he paused to scratch a fingernail along the unfamiliar metal, "solid Cabal-ium."

Heavy footsteps stomped over to a crack in the wall near the hull. "Cabal can kick through most things," Vargessus said, her face pressed against the gap in the metal. "Caiatl will kick your Vanguard into pieces, once you cowards stop running."

"Who's running?" Panesh said. "We're in the City waiting for you. Under the big white ball—maybe you've heard of it? We don't run."

"Hrah!" Vargessus laughed. "You run. Fought one of you once—all he did was run. Shield and run. We stopped chasing him and then BOOM!" She pounded the metal wall with a gigantic fist. "He dove at us, covered in lightning! Then he ran again."

"Sounds like he wasn't running," said Panesh. "He retreated to a tactical distance."

"Fancy words for 'run,'" snorted Vargessus. Panesh heard her pace uneasily, then sit in the corridor, her back against the same wall as his.

"Hey," Panesh called, "how about you keep some tactical distance yourself? You smell like a… hot barnyard."

"And you smell also, like a bloodless child. Sour."

There was a loud electrical pop overhead and Panesh raised his hands against a shower of blinding sparks.

"Panesh?" shouted Vargessus.

"I'm fine," he said. "Just another system shorting out."

The Cabal grunted in response. Panesh heard her settle back against the wall.

"Unripe," she added.

"You're ripe enough for both of us," he said.

But neither of them moved.

<|endoftext|>

Hoarfrost-Z

The Last City, Earth      

GX-818 Experimental Notation:
Recovered Hive Ghost inoperable. Still responds to electrical impulse. Ran gauntlet of tests and gleaned welcome protocol data.

New chest rig comes in handy for experimentation and observation: every time the Ghost exhibits movement, can render it inert without so much as lifting a finger. Must employ this technique in future studies…

Hardware architectural analysis confirmed that this derelict creature exhibited a malleable structure. Certainly wasn't created with a specific framework in mind and looks to have adapted its configuration to its Lightbearer once acquired. Is this necessary for the bonding process? For creating the perception of companionship? Is it possible for a Ghost to connect to a Lightbearer without undergoing restructuring?

Previous behavioral studies have shown that Ghosts can be selective. Given lack of pre-programmed directives, it is now clear that they make conscious choice about whom to revive. Hardware evidence suggests that Ghosts were always capable of reviving Hive; perhaps they always intended to.    

Addendum for Spider:
You've asked me why I like to "tinker with your toys" before I deliver them. Well, here you are. Proof of what I've been saying all along:

We live at the whims of a god who blesses the few at the expense of the many. We follow leaders who claim to understand this speechless orb, and we are expected to do as it wills, no matter the cost to ourselves.

So many people still condemned to die, and it willingly granted immortality to a death cult, served on a silver platter by these… automata. Well, I too have a will, and I will not prostrate myself before something capable of such evil.

Your Ever-Skeptical Häkke Exile,
Alexei

<|endoftext|>

Peregrine Greaves

From: Jagi
To: Saint-14
Category: 8-sat bounce
Priority: 3

Acting on intel from Hunter Vanguard Aparajita-4, my host made contact with the Lightbearer inhabiting the ruins of Caer Lerion. Recommend classification of said Lightbearer as "Warlord."

My host engaged, but the target occupied advantageous terrain and our Ghosts' resurrection times have increased by another 2.8 percent, a 0.6 increase from my last report. Further analysis is attached to this report.

After several waves, a retreat seemed the only tactical option left to us. Before I could issue the command, a new variable entered the field from above.

At first I believed it to be a Warsat. My initial assessment proved incorrect; the variable was a Titan who deployed himself from high ground to deliver an aerial melee assault upon the target.

This proved a turning point in the battle, and we were soon able to incapacitate the Warlord and prepare him for return to the Tower. I have asked the Titan to file his own report, which is also attached.

END MESSAGE


BEGIN ATTACHMENT

From: Vell Tarlowe
To: Saint-14
Category: 8-sat bounce
Priority: 1

I just had the best. Day. Of. My. Life. Get ready for this…

<|endoftext|>

Phoenix Cradle

"Magistrate? Aodh? I'm here. I've returned."

"I know that voice. Ouros. You found the Forge."

"Yes, Magistrate."

"I knew you would. Come. Sit by me. Let us rekindle our friendship."

"…Magistrate? What happened?"

"I am Empyreal Magistrate no longer. I have not been for many years. I lost my Ghost, and so… my Light. With it went the Forge."

"But, Magistrate—"

"No. No, that title belongs to another now. You must seek them out. Gather the other Sunbreakers, and choose a new Magistrate. The Order has lacked leadership for too long. Bring them together, Ouros.

"Heat is a force that breaks bonds, shatters structure, separates elements. Heat liquefies solids, and in turn transforms them to aether. In this way, it is a force of chaos and destruction. It even tears the universe apart. In a way, it tore apart our Order."

"What do you mean?"

"The fire that burns within you—that rage, that wrath—it explodes outward upon foes. Incinerates. Destroys. But that is not all. What happens when you burn yourself or your friends?"

"Burn myself or…? The ring of flames. In it, my enemies burn, and yet my allies can walk through that fire, untouched."

"Yes! But for you it is more. Is it not so?"

"Yes. I feel stronger inside the circle."

"Exactly. But the grace of Solar Light was never meant to be ours alone. In the beginning, Sunbreakers could share the warmth of the fire within. Friends that walked in the circle felt that warmth too."

"What happened?"

"The ring of flames was a judge, granting only weal or woe. Too many who carried the Light were burned by the heat of the fire. That was part of why we Sunbreakers could not abide so-called civilization.

"Leaving wasn't easy. Not all in the Order thought it the right path. Despite the good we could do in the wilds, there was disagreement, judgement. More bonds broken than made.

"Little by little, we all lost something. Sharing the warmth of our fires with others just became… too hard. The method became a secret, and the secret became a mystery.

"Find the others. Choose an Empyreal Magistrate. Find a way to share your fire. I am too old and have no fire left to share."

"No, Aodh. Your shoulder warms mine, too. Your words kindle a new fire in me. We'll spread the flames together. And we'll find a way share the warmth again."

"But I am too old. I am blind. I have no Light."

"You've seen more than me, and your vision is so clear, it opened my eyes. You are not shadowed by a Ghost, but you're as bright as the Sun."

"For one who says so little, you have a fine way with words. Perhaps we won't have to go too far to find a new Empyreal Magistrate."

<|endoftext|>

The Path of Burning Steps

Words burnt into the fearless:

Follow not those who take the road less traveled,

Nor those who stand behind one another in waiting.

Carve fresh the stone of the obstinate mountain.

Lay waste to that which is impassible.

May your footfalls leave cinder in their wake,

For you fuel your steps by the danger of their stride.

—Code of the Devastator

<|endoftext|>

Astrocyte Verse

Ghost, record this.

Trial 1: I am now putting the Astrocyte Verse on my

Ending

Beginning of all endings

Dying into infinite composite

All nothings begin therewhen

Fear is very small and it is everywhy and it is not fear it is a brutal spark a nerve ending straining under weight multimyr iteration could not foresee even though it is just that because there is no other—

Acausals whickering away become jagged umami zeroes

Awe yourself toward reddening shift

For

We

Am

 Aaaaaaah

 Aaaaaah

  AAAAAAH

[Ghost note: key of Eb minor]

[silence lasting 4.22 minutes]

Good work, Ghost. Now, let's go again.


Trial 93. I am now putting the Astrocyte Verse on my head—

<|endoftext|>

Felwinter's Helm

"He's the one," Radegast said, pleased with himself.

Felwinter stood in front of the Iron Lords with his Shotgun loose but ready at his side. He said nothing.

"All right," Efrideet said, clapping her hands together. "Well, right off the bat, you look like an Iron Lord. Formidable. Grim."

Lord Saladin thinned his lips but said nothing.

Efrideet walked in a circle around Felwinter, studying his beat-up armor. She paused behind him, and then said uneasily, "Turn around."

Felwinter hesitated, and then reluctantly began an awkward, stomping turn-in-place. He faced away from the Iron Lords, revealing the back of his helmet: Embedded in it was a broken, flickering Ghost. Its eye darted in frantic circles. 

"What in the Traveler-forsaken hell is that," Skorri breathed.

Felwinter turned back around. "Warlord's Ghost," he said.

The group stood in stunned silence.

"OK," Efrideet said slowly, walking back over to join her companions. "First rule: No armor modifications using… half-dead Ghosts." She grimaced. "Take that thing off."

"It's useful," Felwinter said. His Ghost floated beside him and bobbed, as if to nod.

"I have to agree with Efrideet," Saladin said. "Put it out of its misery. You should've done that a long time ago." He eyed Felwinter. "Non-negotiable."

They stared at each other for a long moment, sizing each other up.

"All right," Felwinter said finally. "I'll take it off."

But he never did.

<|endoftext|>

Dawn Chorus

My heart warms like fire kindled; my spirit exalted by the Flame. I smile at my enemies, because I rejoice in their chastening.

No one burns so brightly or holds the righteousness of the Flame's Sword.

No longer shall you quaver; be not timid in the light of our Flame, for the Flame is our guardian; and by His hand shall all we dread be burnt away.

The guns of our enemies silenced, and those among us who fled return with courage. Those who have shivered at shadows now set fires and keep fear at bay. Bright is the future we have before us, because we carry the Flame forward into the night.

The Flame dies and comes alive again; like a phoenix, He rises from ash and burns anew. The Flame makes us strong by sharing His light; He rekindles the hope that lies within us. From the weak He forges strength; from the impure He burns the wickedness. Our path through darkness is clear, for the Flame has lit the way.

For our hearts are the hearths in which the Flame burns; His fires will guard the homes of His faithful, but the evil will be blinded by its light and flee into shadow.

By bullets alone shall none prevail. The Flame's Sword shall never dull its edge or brilliance. The foes of the Flame shall forever be turned to smoke and blown away. For the Flame is everlasting; haunted by His own ghost, He cannot die.

—Song from a hymnal discovered in the Scorched Chapel, believed to be an account of the Risen named Hungren-3

<|endoftext|>

Getaway Artist

If Thalia is lightning, Ayrin is thunder. You hear him coming, and he likes it that way. He's got a kitbashed heavy bomber that he pulled out of a trash fire. The engine goes THUT-THUT-THUT-THUT, just these big, stupid-sounding percussive booms, and it's like all monsters, man, the noise this thing makes can stop your blood cold.

So. Otto and I load the supplies into the back, and Thalia hops into the passenger seat.

The chumps that run out to stop us are babies. That's the kicker with Warlords—other than ours, there's not a Ghost in sight here. Just civilians who can barely hold their guns without wetting their pants, who can't aim worth a damn, who stick their necks out for the bad guys with eternal life. Real geniuses.

Boo-hoo.

Guess what? We got hungry, too. We starved, too. So when there was food, we took it, and if the Warlords put cannon fodder in our way to slow us down, that wasn't my fault. Wasn't our fault.

Anyway, Ayrin. He stands up in the open-roof cockpit and whoops, and the little devil on his shoulder, a crackling ball of Arc energy, spits bullets behind him. Mows down the idiots as they run straight into the line of fire, like lemmings. And Ayrin doesn't need to shoot anything himself, but he does. For fun.

When he gets enough target practice, and Otto and I are on board, he lets his little blue buddy handle the rest, and he tears out of there like a bat out of hell.

See? We were a well-oiled machine. A perfect team. We could've kept on like that for centuries.

<|endoftext|>

Necrotic Grip

Project day 2. I just got my first look at Artifact H-349. It's heavier than expected. More than a few people questioned if we even should study something with such a… dire legacy, but if we can't understand our enemies' tools, then we leave ourselves vulnerable to them.

---

Project day 5. Ran our first test of the artifact's… let's call them "necrotic properties." We used cattle; they were large enough to survive the initial discharge. The results have been… upsetting. 

No more animal testing.

 ---

Project day 30. Spectral analysis is back, and it's got nothing. The artifact doesn't operate like traditional Hive tech, which is our closest analogue. A cult of deranged fanatics can mass produce knockoffs, but we can't even tell you what it's made from.

 ---

Project day 31. We had an accidental discharge. Carro, lab tech over in 4B. Human, so… this is going to be it for him. We've got someone staying with him as the corruption spreads… At the very least, there's so much more to study now as we watch his unfortunate deterioration. He's been babbling since it hit his central nervous system, saying, "I'm reborn," or variations thereof. I think… he almost sounds happy.

---

Project day 39. The Vanguard forbade a postmortem, but a few of us couldn't stomach the idea of Carro's sacrifice being in vain. The results have been insightful. Off the record, I'm keeping a few tissue samples. It almost feels like having him around again. 

 ---

Project day 41. We began the day with another moment of silence for our lost colleague. Too bad he's not around to appreciate it.

 ---

Project day 45. We kept thinking about H-349 as a destroyer. But it's more sophisticated than that. I mean, with a normal gun, it's just… boom. Done. H-349 on the other hand is deadly, not destructive. Much like a viper, its bite does not bring about instant death. Instead, its venom cajoles. It co-opts your beating heart into a death clock, ticking down your last moments. Your own pulse kills you. 

 Death may be slow and agonizing for its victim. But for the viper, time is an amenable trade for efficiency.

 ---

Project day 51. Yanniv has been crying. A lot lately. We must accept that tragedies happen; it's a hard lesson to learn.

 ---

Project day 65. Another accidental discharge today. We realized that Yor's little creation is hungry, so we fed it more. It certainly performs in exchange; the activity is intriguing after it feasts. I've been able to follow Yanniv's degradation with a more analytical mind than when we lost Carro. I have to say, the process is so elegant; the science involved almost seems poetic. It may be reproducible. Just imagine how much more I could've learned if the scanners were all active at the time.

 ---

Project day 77. Another accidental discharge. This time, I ensured the scanners were running beforehand. 

— Audio logs of Warlock and researcher Jana-14, salvaged after evacuation

<|endoftext|>

Nothing Manacles

Sjari drifts faceup through the amethyst eddies.

She maintains her focus, keeps her mind calm, so that she can stay nestled in the magic flow between places without emerging. Without attracting the Hive.

She can sense them around her, their foul presence charging the Ley Lines, waiting for a pocket of potential space to materialize.

She needs to keep them here—wherever here is, as she doesn't know where she landed after the eruption of energy that threw her from her Line—and far from the Dreaming City. From Mara.

The thought of Mara's return sends a trill of hope through her. She can almost see Mara's face framed in lilac mist.

The effect is subtle but immediate. Gently, the current of the Ley Line changes course, bringing Sjari back to her queen.

With a start, she pushes the thought of Mara out of her conscious mind. She thinks instead of stillness, of the flickering blackness of the bleak planes, of the awful limbo of being trapped between worlds.

She desires it, begs for it. And the current obliges. It calms, and Sjari floats aimlessly once more.

Better to die in this barren realm than lead the Hive back home.

<|endoftext|>

Osmiomancy Gloves

As we count the dead and make plans for recovery, I wish to record some of my recent scientific inquiries and theories before they are muddled by or altogether forgotten in the tangle of rebuilding what was lost.
 
Possibility. It exists within each life, an expanse and myriad of complexity explored openly through the philosophical constructs of choice and free will. Even when life ends, possibility carries forward in the lives touched and the projects created. When the actions of another end a life, Humans often refer to this act as killing or "taking a life." But where killing brings about a singular conclusion, Oryx's "Taking" was quite the opposite: he imposed a singular origin and all decisions that followed. He shaped the causality, the very history of another being, by force of will—recasting it into fanatical loyalty. In short, possibility never existed.

Like Ikora, my role is anticipating threats. While these Taken and their king may have been the most dangerous opponents we have ever faced, they likely will be the least of what is yet to come. And Taking has terrible potential if wielded by a mind more nuanced than Oryx's. Taking involves reforming matter in a self-contained reality, where the creator defines past, present, and future; imagine how a more insightful being could expand these definitions, to different ends. Overcoming a target's will must consume a large portion of energy. What if you used that energy for larger shifts in reality? You could teleport an army into a Hive mothership… move a fleet outside time and space… perhaps even alter a moon's orbit, devastating the planet below. The military applications could be far graver than simply creating an army.

Clearly, this is a subject in dire need of study. As the Taken themselves are frustratingly ephemeral, I have instead retrieved a variety of osmium ore samples from Oryx's flagship. They resonate in harmony with the Taken and thus may provide guidance in understanding the profane science behind them.

—Personal Logs, Ophiuchus

<|endoftext|>

Stormdancer's Brace

"You drift over the ground like a cloud, lightning flashing from your hands, thunder ringing in your ears and pounding in your chest. You think you are the storm.

"You're not.

"Howling does not make you the wind. Weeping does not make you an ocean.

"To be a good Stormcaller, you must bring the storm with you. Then you channel the lightning through yourself, like a lightning rod, and unleash it upon your foes.

"But to be a great Stormcaller, you must realize the storm isn't with you. The storm is so much bigger than you, so much mightier than you can control. You don't bring the storm. You're swept up by it. You may throw the lightning, but the storm hurls you.

"The Stormtrance is a dance. Follow the storm's lead."

—Ikora Rey

<|endoftext|>

Mantle of Battle Harmony

Crash Site, Nessus Terrae, Day Two

**

Panesh could see the Cabal warrior's eye pressed against the gap in the torn metal hull. The frigate crash had trapped them both in the wreckage, and only a haphazard cascade of heavy metal beams separated the two.

The Cabal had an entire length of hallway to prowl, yet here she was again, her rumbling voice filling the space where the Lightbearer was crouched.

"Do you truly think you could do it?" she asked. "I am curious."

Panesh shrugged. "Sure. You're a big target. I'd shoot until you stopped moving."

"No," she snarled. "In a real fight, with blades. No guns, no Light-magic."

"Vargessus," Panesh said patiently, "you're five times my size. Guns and Light-magic are my only choices here."

Vargessus pulled back from the opening in disgust. "Cowards. Your kind relies too much on your magic." She paced in her hallway like a caged animal. "It gives you the luxury to be soft."

She was interrupted by a metallic twang from somewhere far above them. For a moment, the steady dripping of foul, brackish water in the corner of Panesh's cell became a weak stream. He pushed his empty helmet beneath the flow.

"The Light gives us the freedom to accomplish great things," Panesh said. He laid one of his metal greaves flat on the ground and carefully poured half of the water into it. "The best of us can be strong just by holding that power inside us—we don't have to let it out."

Panesh slid the makeshift trough under the lowest beam and into the corridor. There was a quiet moment as the two survivors drank.

"Ignovun, the leader of Empress Caiatl's fleet?" Vargessus grumbled. "His helm was crafted by Psions and contains their very will. It grants him power over flame."

"What does he do with that power?"

Panesh could hear the shrug in Vargessus' voice: "He kills."

Panesh chuckled and his stomach cramped in protest. He drew his knees up to his body. "Right now, I'd fight the empress herself for something to eat," he groaned.

There was a rustling near the collapsed beams. Panesh looked up as a thick finger pushed a chunk of fatty meat ration through a gap in the metal.

"There. Eat," said Vargessus. "I want you strong when I kill you."

<|endoftext|>

Promethium Spur

"There are symbols in this world—beacons of hope in dark times. We look to them to find inspiration to go on when hope seems lost.

"We need them now more than ever. In these disconcerting times, uncertainty and speculation have run rampant and grown wild. Burn it down. Raze it to ash.

"Remind them what Warlocks stand for. We are the inextinguishable Dawn shining through the midnight Darkness. They look to us as a lodestar. Show them the way forward.

"Be the symbol, Guardian. Embolden your friends and allies.

"Together, nothing can stop us."

—Ikora Rey

<|endoftext|>

Boots of the Assembler

I.

Ikora Rey's blood was up. She had just left a debriefing on the previous night's sabotage of the Eliksni camp. With each detail, her blood pounded more forcefully in her ears and the Light tingled in her fingertips. Now, striding across the elevated catwalk, her temper nearly lifted her off the ground in righteous fury. 

Suddenly a deep, familiar voice broke through the tumult: "Anger bends the mind, as gravity bends space-time. It's a form of distortion—useful, but dangerous." Ikora turned, half expecting to find Osiris standing behind her. But she was still alone. 

"Like gravity, once anger reaches a critical mass, it collapses in on itself, and not even Light can escape." Ikora smiled to herself. Even in absentia, her mentor always knew just what to say. 

Ikora Rey ducked into an alcove and sat with her back against the cool stone of the Tower. She closed her eyes and listened to her breath. Concentrated on slowing her heartrate. Felt her muscles loosen. 

Once her body was stilled, she completed one of the many meditations Osiris taught her when she first began her training. She felt the Light moving through her body: first as a raging fire, then as a rushing river, and finally as a cool breeze. By the time she opened her eyes, her mind was clear and sharp. 

She was prepared to face her opponent. 

II. 

Saint-14 was doing munitions inventory when Osiris swept into the room. Saint put down his datapad next to a crate of grenades and stood up. Osiris scanned the shelves of guns and ammo, looking for something. 

Saint stood dumbly, waiting for some kind of acknowledgement. When it was clear that none was forthcoming, he called out, "Osiris. What are you looking for?" His voice was loud and strained. 

Osiris didn't turn from the shelves. "The Light suppressor that the Psions used on Zavala's Ghost. I need it for my research." 

"Zavala kept it, I think. Ask him about it," Saint replied, trying not to sound put out. 

Osiris faced his partner, his eyes narrowed in thought. "Very well." Then, as an afterthought, "Thank you." 

As the former Warlock turned to leave, Saint called out, "I was hoping we could spend some time together soon. Just the two of us." 

"Doing what?" Osiris inquired with a small smile. 

"We could fly out to the Alps," Saint suggested. "Or walk around the ruins of Prague. Like we used to." 

"That seems fine," Osiris said. He shrugged a shoulder. "Provided the City doesn't burn to the ground in our absence." Then after a beat: "Is that all?" 

Is that all? Behind his helmet, Saint frowned. "I suppose." 

Osiris strode from the room, leaving Saint alone with a sinking feeling in the pit of his stomach. 

III. 

Lakshmi-2 watched Osiris from across the bustling courtyard. Of all the political creatures in the Tower, he was the one that troubled her most. 

Her concern was not a matter of the ex-Warlock's unpredictability. In fact, it was just the opposite. 

The Device had no trouble parsing his arrogant brilliance—his every move was well within the standard deviation. 

Yet for someone with a legendary reputation as an eccentric, his every move as of late had been shockingly moderate. It was his newfound predictability that bothered her. 

Perhaps the loss of his Ghost had affected him more than anyone understood. Maybe the burden of mortality had sapped his courage. 

It was also possible that Osiris represented a blind spot in the Vex dataset; something that only a Human could comprehend. Or perhaps instead, something obvious to the Vex overlooked by her Human mind. 

Whatever the case, Osiris bore watching the old-fashioned way. At least until his usefulness played out.

<|endoftext|>

Secant Filaments

In this treatise, I plan to revisit earlier mathematical theorems and revise them considering our new observations on the Light, the Darkness, and lifeforms imbued with those respective powers. But before I do so, I must preface it with a personal note.

Despite high-minded assumptions, mathematics is not an intrinsic language of the universe. It is how we describe the portions of the universe that we can observe. While numbers can track the abstract and find pattern in chaos, they cannot account for fundamental aspects of reality such as compassion or justice. The existence of the Lucent Hive, and Hive Ghosts in particular, may expand our understanding of causality, but they themselves are not "new"—the only thing that is new is our awareness and observation of them. These Ghosts have already been living alongside us. They've traveled with us. Endured with us.

What we see is the mushroom, the fruit of the fungus. The fungus itself is a vast mycorrhizal network of filaments growing and working unseen below the soil, often barely connected to the fruiting bodies we observe. Similarly, we have observed Ghosts—Hive Ghosts included—without understanding the nature of the unseen filaments that may guide us. 

In our eagerness to understand the universe, we must not assume our observations are complete, or objective. Otherwise, we blind ourselves to possibilities… like the possibility that an unnoticed faction among us may be one temptation away from betrayal. Or that what drives our creator is no more than the same base desire for survival that drives all living things.

—On Secants, Introduction, Ophiuchus

<|endoftext|>

Weapons

The tools with which a Guardian defends the system.

<|endoftext|>

Izanagi's Burden

"I have it," I say, feeling Henriette's gaze piercing through me. The Exo holds her back. Inside that head of hers I know she's screaming for me not to do it. But I have to. It's is the kind of thing one does for love. The burden one takes on. 

I refuse to look back at her. I can't let those eyes stop me. "What you want. The Exo doesn't have it anymore. I do," I tell the man with the drone. 

Tears are streaming down Henriette's face now. She's shaking her head. I still can't look. I know the feelings that would flow through me if I did. 

"Yuki, no! Please don—" Henriette cries, only to be interrupted by the man. "Shh, darling. You'd best quiet down. Let me and your friend here finish our little transaction." 

I've rarely ever seen her tears. She's not normally one to make them. Usually I'm the one who needs comforting. Needs my eyes dried. And she's always the one to do it. Fearless Henriette. Well, Hen, today it's my turn. Today I save you. 

The man scowls, his voice grows sharper. "Hand it over then. I won't ask twice." I nod, and I try to stay calm. I try to use it to lure him in. A false sense of security. "I'm just going to reach into my bag now," I tell him. He shakes his head. "Not so fast, friend." He takes a few steps, stopping an inch away from me, the barrel of his cannon in my face. "Let's keep any potential wrong moves to a minimum here, please." Then he nods for me to go ahead. 

I'm absolutely relieved. He took the bait. And now he'll pay the price. I can't go just yet, though. I need just… one more glance. One last look at those eyes of hers. I can't help it. 

It's too late now, anyway. My hand is in the bag and I've already pulled the pin. No turning back. My eyes dart to the side, to hers. They lock, one last time. I'm at peace. I let her know with a smile. I hope she finds hers. 

I swear she's in my head, hearing me say goodb—

<|endoftext|>

The Last Word

Knew this day would come, and with it, one last lesson…

There's an end to all things, kid. Good and bad.

Sure, the best times seem small, and the bad tend to linger, but the only permanent is eternity.

I'm off to meet it.

If you're lucky, someday you will too.

For now, though, you've got road yet traveled and lives yet lived.

I know you got hate in you. Most do. Trick is to use it, 'stead of it usin' you.

But you know this—vengeance is a motivator, not the motive.

Meant to—hoped to—say these words to you one last time in person, but writin' 'em down seems the safe bet with the prey we're trackin'.

Worst part about bein' a good guy? As much as you may want it, you can't always win. But that truth don't bother me. We do the right thing, 'cause the right thing needs doin'. So, when another does harm—casts their shadow upon you or your kin—you go 'head and hunt for the justice needed to answer any sins inflicted.

Don't hunt 'em 'cause you been wronged.

Hunt 'em 'cause what they did was wrong.

There's a world of difference there, kid.

One makes you selfish. The other makes you a hero.

And I see a hero in you.

And with this last good lesson, a gift. I know it feels right in your hand—its weight easy, its trigger smooth. Use it as you will—I know you'll use it right.

It's yours now, 'til the last flame dies and all words've been spoken.

'Til that time.

Safe journeys. Straight aim. And good huntin'.

J.

—A letter to Shin Malphur from his third father, Jaren Ward, written before Ward's ill-fated showdown with the infamous Dredgen Yor in the wooded hollow beyond Beggars' Gulch

<|endoftext|>

Arbalest

"Nah. Dark Age version was better."

"You and I remember the Dark Age differently."

"I'll take a hard projectile over energy any day. No better way to make sure the target is dead."

"Energy is for silencing barriers. Fists are all I need to administer blunt-force trauma."

"I forget you used to be a Warlord."

"What do you mean 'used to?'"

"I thought you'd thrown in with Saladin and Felwinter."

"I did. But I never stopped being me."

"Then why—"

"'Warlord' is too many syllables."

"Gambit needs more candidates like you. Should stop by sometime. Whatever you want to call yourself."

"Thank you. You're a liar and a cheat. Stay out of my Crucible."

<|endoftext|>

Thorn

"The Weapons of Sorrow are not the endgame, but a road map. Each evolution, every advance in the delivery of pain and the mastery of destruction feeds the Hive's hateful weapons research. They will map every scream, harness every aggression, until they understand every method by which to ravage the hearts, minds, and flesh of man. And in doing so, they will turn us against ourselves—feeding our lust, our greed, our fear, until we become a threat unto ourselves like none we could imagine. So, wield these, angry reaper. Strive to know the darkness in your own heart. Walk in the shadows of fallen heroes. And know that you are an enemy of hope."

—a warning

<|endoftext|>

Outbreak Perfected

The Captain stands with his primary hands braced on a command table. He stares down at a static holoprojection as though it might reveal some new secret. Nearby, the Hunter combs through scout reports. The Warlock taps rapidly at a datapad, running simulation after simulation. No one speaks.

There is a deafening boom. The holoprojection flickers; the whole Skiff tilts seventy degrees off-kilter. The Captain holds tight to the table, reaching out with a secondary arm to snatch the Hunter as he goes toppling by. The Warlock is not a concern; she has Blinked her way to a secure handhold.

The Captain calls to his crew, speaking Eliksni too fast for the Hunter or the Warlock to follow. Someone calls back. The Skiff tilts nauseously, then stabilizes.

"Eramis?" the Warlock asks.

The Captain nods. Letting go of the Hunter, he disappears through an access hatch to consult with his crew.

"I don't like this," the Hunter says lowly. "We should be there with him."

The Warlock chews on her lower lip. She doesn't like it either, but they've argued endlessly with their Captain and gained no ground. "We have to trust him," she says finally. "This is what he wants."

"Trust him to die?" the Hunter hisses. "Let's break down how stupid this is: not only does he wants to infiltrate the Tower without us, he's planning to wear Devils colors to interrupt a Devils heist to reclaim SIVA. And instead of leaning on us, his good Guardian friends, he's banking on some stranger—"

"Not a stranger," the Warlock cuts in.

"Fine! Not a stranger, but definitely not a friend!" The Hunter grits his teeth. "We should do it. We need to do it. Let's just go; let's go now. We can cut them off." He conjures his Ghost with a twist of his wrist, readying for transmat.

"We have to trust him," the Warlock repeats, reaching out to grasp the Hunter's forearm. "I think he's right when he says it doesn't mean anything if we do it. Guardians do extraordinary things all the time. And he needs more allies…"

The Captain reenters their little ad-hoc war room. They draw up guiltily. The Hunter hides his Ghost.

"All well?" he asks, looking between them.

"Eia, Mithrax," the Warlock murmurs. "We're all good."

The Hunter says nothing.

"We walk this hardship-path with joyful hearts. Be brave."

<|endoftext|>

Bad Juju

Hello again, my trenchant Dante.

You have stepped in and out of sharp-edged worlds, hewn gods into blunt fractions, twinned yourself with powers whose names cannot even be held in the language of little gray cells. You think yourself very high up on the pyramid of contumely.

If you only knew how high that pyramid goes.

Higher than I knew when my radiant killer unsung me from biological squalor, or when I witnessed a royal secret turn death into a chrysalis. Higher than I described in my journals, or told to our mutual three-eyed friend.

Higher than even I, sailor upon the Sea of Screams that I am, can yet see.

Perhaps I will tell you about them.

You are right to ask why I would do so. Very good, dear squanderer, your intentions have grown sharp as thrallteeth.

You see, they know. What you are, what you were, what you will become. They know.

What lean tithes you are to them. Soft whetstones make for dull blades.

This I define as the truth and tension of the rope: to bind, one must apply force at both ends.

I think perhaps I will tell you after all.

<|endoftext|>

Lumina

In young languages, we sketched for each other the seemings of stars and planets and the black between galaxies.

We have devoted ourselves to listening. To the Cosmos, by crafting assemblers that can translate for us the mechanical language of Order. And to our own withins, by withstanding the howling storm until patience and humility made of chaos—if not sense, then at least peace.

From beyond emptiness, a Gardener emerged, drawn from pseudophotons and impossible math. And our nest of colliding space dust was never the same.

For it heard meaning in our roar.

<|endoftext|>

Monte Carlo

"The math isn't the thing. The math is an inside joke. Just old solutions some say hint at the pinnacle of pre–Golden Age thought mechanics. My partner used to go on about it. About probabilities and random patterns used to solve the unsolvable. I never really paid attention. Outdated science never equaled a good payday, if you follow. Anyway, we used to run resource grabs along a coast out east. We found the rifle in the ruins of a gamblin' hall. In a vault ten feet thick. Behind glass, like it was someone's somethin' special—a real showpiece. Thought for sure we had a solid score. Funny bit was, the spot where we found it…? It was named after the math. Or, that's what my partner said. My money says the opposite, but what I know about science and history is limited to what I can sell and the sum it'll fetch.

"So, we're out in that ruined hall with loot to spare and an old-time shooter that should trade for a small fortune. Then scavengers hit. Small crew, but mean. My partner took bolts. Dropped. I tried to cover him, but the pirates were on us. Last I saw, his Ghost got scraped by a line rifle. Nothing I could do. Only reason me and my girl made it out was she was off scoutin' our escape, and I… The Fallen were distracted by my partner. But, I'm tellin' ya… there was nothing I could do."

"You were lucky to make it back… With your life, and your 'treasure.'"

"You could say that."

"You survived an unauthorized run in known Fallen territory. You found an advanced Golden Age firearm with functional tech in a sealed chamber. You sold the weapon's tech to a gunsmith you won't name for a 'small fortune' in Glimmer. And your partner is nowhere to be found—'dead by Fallen hands'—so that 'fortune' is all yours. No need to split it."

"Sure. When you look at it that way, the math ain't so bad."

—Egon Bash, a questionable Hunter under Vanguard interrogation

<|endoftext|>

No Time to Explain

Novarro's timeline analysis indicates the weapon is the fabled Exo Stranger's Rifle, enhanced at a future point in this continuity and then sent back to this present…

…on Europa. Late Golden Age. Deep inside a secret lab.

"Which window?"

"3025, Dr. Bray."

"I thought we'd run out of possibilities there?"

"We had… and then a new one popped up."

"Austen-1, how is that possible?"

"We don't know. We still don't understand how any of this works. It's highly volatile and uncontro—"

"Have we pinpointed the weapon's exact location?"

"…More or less. Elsie-1 is supposed to attempt retrieval tonight."

"We can't risk the window closing before then. I'll be going this time."

"But last time, those things in the sky almost killed you."

"And now I know how they work. That's half the battle."

The old man gears up and enters a strange metallic pod made from Vex parts. Austen-1 stands at a distance from the pod, typing "April 10, 3025" into a console.

"All right, Dr. Bray. You're a go in 3… 2… 1…"

A burst of light.

An icy wasteland. What stood pristine moments prior is now dark, old, and falling apart, as if centuries have passed.

Clovis wades through the wreckage and comes to a frozen, deserted battlefield littered with human, Exo, Vex, and alien bodies. He reaches down and brushes snow from one of the alien bodies, lifting one of its many arms.

"Fascinating…"

A piercing whir emanates from somewhere in the distance—Clovis looks up and sees a black and red ship floating in the air. It stops above the battlefield and emits a bright red light, scanning the area as if searching for something.

Clovis slowly pulls a device from his pocket. He presses a green button, and the screen lights up, showing a blinking dot a few yards away. Very close to where the ship itself now searches.

He grabs a dead Exo and opens a panel on its arm, tinkering before closing it with care. He quickly sneaks away, and in seconds, the Exo explodes, drawing the attention of the ship. He sprints across the battlefield towards where it was searching only moments ago.

Using his device again, Clovis scans the ground until the blinking light goes solid. He digs into the snow until he hits something. He pulls it up halfway—a rifle, shining like new, etched only with one word: Now.

Clovis attempts to fully free the weapon. But it's stuck; attached to something. He pulls harder, revealing an entire dead Exo, hand wrapped tightly around the grip. He takes a good look at its face and gasps.

"Elisabeth…?"

The whirring sound reaches Clovis's ears again, pulling him out of his stupor. The ship heads right towards him. Clovis pries the gun from Elsie's rigid hand and sprints back the way he came, diving into his pod and activating it just as the ship fires on him.

A burst of light.

"You could have been killed," says a familiar voice.

"Instead, I got you a gift, Elisabeth," Clovis responds, catching his breath and dusting himself off.

"One down, an infinite number left to go. It better have been worth it."He looks into her eyes and musters a half-hearted smile.

"We'll make it so."

<|endoftext|>

Hawkmoon

What is this feeling?

I did not ask for it. I do not understand it. I do not want it.

The Crow is so carefree in his ignorance. The bonfire's glow lights up his pale features and I am drawn to the hope in his gold eyes. Where is the despairing child I anticipated?

He drinks from an open bottle of wine against the recommendation of his Ghost. The Guardian encourages him and they are laughing. This celebration is maddening; neither have reason to be so jubilant. Their world is ending and they thrash like dying creatures in the final light of collapsing stars. They do not seem to acknowledge the futility of their existence, the impermanence of it in the face of cosmic annihilation.

Now the Guardian is drinking, standing close to the fire. Their Ghost, too, encourages them not to partake. They poison themselves for the enjoyment of it.

I am reminded of my sisters. Of moments spent by lapping shores, gazing up at infinite stars full of possibilities and wonder. I am left yearning.

What is this feeling?

I do not understand it. I do not want it.

They are celebrating their victory over the Taken. The Crow is making a gun shape with his hand, swinging the nearly empty bottle of wine around in the other like a Sword. The Guardian looks pensive, sitting on a rock by the fire, contemplating the secret they are keeping. The Crow notices, but tries not to show it. He wants the Guardian's spirits to be lifted. He wants to be supportive, so that they may share in their triumphs together.

As equals.

I am reminded of my home. I am reminded of the warmth of the sun and the embrace of my family. I am reminded of my father's face. I am reminded of everyone I betrayed. All the blood spilled in the name of immortality. The warmth of the sun burns me with its memory.

What is this feeling?

I do not want it.

The fire has nearly died. The Crow fell over and cannot stand, though he insists he is fine. The Guardian is turning the embers with the tip of their Sword. The Ghosts are talking to one another in quiet conspiracy. The celebration has ended, but I can sense their emotions are mixed: complex and myriad things, when a simple, singular focus would suffice.

There is a growing kinship here. Against better judgment.

What is this feeling?

<|endoftext|>

Dead Man's Tale

Gaelin-4's war beast  leads us through balmy Venusian  jungle. Our rifles low, our Ghosts high in the canopy like sentry drones.

"My vehicle is old. Needs maintenance. Been running too long without cutting the engine," I say.

Gaelin sends me a sideways look. "That shipwright  still around? She used to make cider in the autumn. I swear, she kept us like a pack of strays."

I sigh. "No, I mean this thing." I run my hand over my body. "Besides, you know I can't go back there." I straighten the leather wrap around my Tex-foundry rifle.

"You know I literally tune myself, right?" asks the Exo Hunter.

"Why? You're immortal."

"And you're not?"

"I know, but I'm… slower. I feel slower."

"Uh huh."

"Just not like what I used to feel like. Not… spry. Not up here either." I tap my helmet.

"Tragedy. I feel for you. Have Gilgamesh  tune you then."

I chuckle. "Yeah… he'd love that."

"You two having issues again?"

I shake my head in a stiff, narrow lie. "You think we come back the same every time?"

"I do. Straight from the manufacturer ," Gaelin-4 says.

"Sometimes I get the feeling… something's different."

Gaelin stops and squints at me.

I dip my head and let my hood fall forward. "Nothing I can put my finger on, just little things. Adjustments."

"You think he's changing you?" Gaelin's voice sounds more serious than surprised.

I wait too long to answer. It's not because I don't know my answer, but because I want to feel like I still doubt it. I raise my head. Gaelin meets my eyes and looks up to the canopy.

He leans his shoulder into me and drops his voice to a whisper. "My Clip's  a good one, but you need to realize Ghosts don't know anything. Nobody does. They're just like us. They get curious. They question. If you think something's coming unwound, you need to sit down and talk it out."

"Wait… did Clip change yo—"

"Please," Gaelin scoffs. "You're paranoid." He turns to keep walking and calls back, "Life changes you. Same with them. I'm the only one that stays the same."

Gaelin raises a fist and we stop. His war beast sniffs the air and turns us east. We continue walking.

"What'd you name the beast?"

"Castus."

"You've been reading too many of the Spider's books ."

"Some of 'em are good."

I laugh. "Aren't you the man that said anything you got tying you down can be made into a noose?"

"Yeah, some time ago."

"You've been taking a lot of jobs with him ? Those Fallen?"

"You're one to talk, Emperor's lackey . Some of those Eliksni aren't so bad."

<|endoftext|>

Cryosthesia 77K

She crouched behind a sandstone boulder in the canyon basin and tried desperately to focus.

She clasped her lower hands together and squeezed. The feeling of pressure grounded her, made it possible to ignore the blood that flowed from the wound in her thorax. She could hear the Vex coming closer, their metal feet screeching against stone.

She raised her dominant hand and the thin spindles of her Splicer Gauntlet clacked into place and began to spin. She envisioned the Light surrounding—

She winced as weapons fire impacted the boulder at her back. Turned as it split apart, and for a moment, through the hot blowing sand and choking dust, she faced down an army.

She closed her eyes.

She saw the Vex targeting field sweep over her, flashing crimson and white. She shifted it with a wave of her hand and a hundred shots flew wide.

She felt dozens of Vex-shaped gaps appear in the air behind her and consolidated them. The Vex materialized in the same location and the fused metal mass fell heavily to the ground.

She looked over the gleaming field of enemies. The Light provides, she thought, and the next volley of Vex fire curved around her.

The Gauntlet on her wrist thrummed as a small portal opened in the air in front of her. She reached inside, felt the familiar shape of a short-term cortical conflux cube, and visualized crushing it in her hand.

A flash of light played over the red eyepieces of the Vex and they marched forward in lockstep, searching for a target they could not see.

She stepped to the side as they passed her.

As the last Minotaur stomped out of the canyon, she reached again into the portal. She willed their knowledge of Misraaks to her fingertips. She saw an image of his Skiff, flying low over the ice, framed in the minds of the Europan Vex. She pictured their awareness as a glass plane and envisioned it cracking, splintering into fragments of—

Inside the portal, dark threads wrapped around her wrist. She visualized them snapping as she struggled to withdraw her hand, but they stuck to her like pitch. She saw them crumbling under harsh Light, but the dust wet itself with her blood and dried around her hand. She saw the Light, but all she felt was the cold dark, freezing around her, holding her fast.

In the distance, the Vex turned as one.

<|endoftext|>

Ager's Scepter

Mara Sov watched her brother imitate a swooping bird as he entertained a semicircle of children. They flocked to him as if the stories he spun were confections.

Uldren lurched to his feet—his shadow casting a heroic pose against a canopy of towering Baryon trees—and thrust a slender blade into the air. 

"Straight through the storm!" he howled as Awoken children shrieked with laughter and applause. "That's right. The two kestrels were like blades sailing on the wind," he said, sheathing the fine steel. "As long as they were together, nothing could stop them."

Mara turned to survey the Awoken flotilla anchored deep within their borders, suspended around a floating starport. Soon they would disembark. This night was for revelry. For families to enshrine in their memories should loved ones fail to return. In the morning, Saturn waited.

Far-off asteroids groaned like thunder, sending the children into a frenzy of gasps.

"Sounds like Ager's having another battle," Uldren said, stepping onto a bench to get a better view. He brought a hand to his brow, as if sighting an advancing stormfront. 

A young Awoken child, no older than six, stood. Uldren watched the worry well in her eyes.

"Is he okay? Can you see them fighting?"

"Oh yes," Uldren answered. "Come here."

The child stepped forward.

"If I'm not mistaken, your name is Erith, isn't it?" Uldren asked. The girl nodded, awestruck. Uldren pulled a looking glass from his belt and placed it in her hand. "Look where I'm pointing."

Erith followed the prince's direction to a spot in the sky that flashed with color.

"I see Ager!" she proclaimed proudly. "I see Rega!"

Uldren patted her shoulder and smiled. "As long as the two of them are together, nothing can stop them. Just like us. Stand with your cousins, and you'll be all right."

Mara met his eyes and stepped forward. "That's enough. The prince has a long journey in the morning, and he must rest. Run along now."

Once the children were beyond eyesight, Mara's expression shifted to a glare. "These stories…" She leaned into Uldren. "Stop filling their heads with nonsense."

<|endoftext|>

Forerunner

Banshee-44 considered the relic on his workbench and the questions on his mind; one stood out above the rest: who were you meant for?

The form of the weapon suggested an oversized sidearm—a secondary weapon for a giant's hands. The function presented more so as an anti-material rifle. "Looks to be 12.7mm… it's like they were making a hand cannon but didn't know it yet."

Banshee wondered further about the warrior who could wield such a thing. His attention drifted momentarily, drawn by Shaxx's voice booming nearby. "Huh. Yeah. A Titan, maybe… and a big one too." 

The weapon was laced with fractures from a life of fire and a sleep of ice, and perhaps other, more exotic stresses. Banshee wished he could've heard the relic's voice, but he knew from earlier examination that it had fired its last round. What a last round it must have been.

The Guardian who brought it to him might be willing to try a shot, untroubled by the risk of a rapid unplanned dismantle. But Banshee knew it wouldn't last through a single magazine. 

Beside the relic lay a stripped-down Breachlight. He would adapt it for a larger round. Custom casings and handguard. Sensorium link scope… and he had other ideas to try as well. 

It would be an homage, an offering to the creators of the original relic. A legacy.

With that satisfying thought in mind, the gunsmith went to work.

<|endoftext|>

Osteo Striga

Ah, pardon us. It just seems like he's always hungry. When I first became a mother, I didn't realize how much time would just be spent feeding him. Do you mind? Thank you.

No, he doesn't look much like me, I know. There are a lot of orphans these days. I heard him crying from… oh my, it seems like half a world away. It was chance, honestly. I never thought of myself as a parent, but caring for another little life… it's taught me so much.

May I?

Sorry, I don't know why I'm sharing so much with you like this. You just seem easy to talk to. And becoming a mom has really given me a lot more insight into the little connections between people. I used to focus so much on my work. I actually lost a few friends over it.

Oh! Shh, shh, shh… there we go. That's right. Growing babies need their calcium.

Now I can see what matters. The beauty in small things and quiet moments. In watching others light up when they see him. In the way meeting new people broadens him.

I had another child, you know. That was… before. I didn't keep him safe. It's for the best. He's… safe now.

Besides, it means I can appreciate this little one so much more. Just the two of us. 

I love my little Striga.

And he's always… so… hungry.

//CASE 620102; SUSPECT IDENT JANA-14; STATUS: AT LARGE
//EVIDENCE IDENT #303, AUDIO DEVICE; RECOVERED ADJACENT TO DISMEMBERED BODY, RIBS EXCISED

<|endoftext|>

Borealis

"Project Borealis's onboard systems contain a pocket energy matrix capable of changing its alignment in a near instant to mimic the spectral frequencies of mapped energy types. The science is groundbreaking, but volatile. We're lucky to have this first, stable model available for active combat use. More will surely come, but for now, the Borealis is the only one of its kind that I trust for real world application." 

"Sounds dangerous." 

"If the internal matrix misaligns for any reason during its shift between outputs—damage, wear, a flaw in its production—the resulting feedback could [REDACTED]." 

"That bad, huh?" 

"If your definition of 'bad' includes the [REDACTED] then yes, 'bad' begins to describe it."

<|endoftext|>

Wavesplitter

From the makers of the Coldheart comes the latest in breakthrough City Age technology: the Wavesplitter. Here are the three most frequently asked questions we get about our revolutionary weaponized sound system.

Q: If the Wavesplitter fires sound waves, does it need ammo packs?

A: The Wavesplitter does need ammo packs, but the onboard matter transmuter turns that ammo into electrical energy that powers the waveform emitter.

Q: What does it sound like when you're hit by it?

A: Our Guardian testers give us many different answers. Some say it sounds like a scream you hear in your bones. Others say it sounds like a dying star. Still others say it reminds them of a knife shaped like a B flat.

Q: Can the Wavesplitter be used as a musical instrument?

A: The Wavesplitter was not designed to be a musical instrument. That said, we at Omolon are in the business of giving Guardians options, not taking them away.

<|endoftext|>

Jötunn

To: Henriette Meyrin
CC: Yuki Satou
Subject: Yesterday…

Hen,

It's no secret that our conversation yesterday didn't go as smoothly as it could have. I came in hot and you overreacted. We'll both have to learn to be more professional in those kinds of situations going forward.

But I'm not just going to drop this. The Armory will be better for it. It's a chance to make real meaningful connections with organizations that want what we want. The possibilities are endless.

Look, you sought me out, brought me here to this project in large part because of my connections. This is the gold mine. And I know, I haven't said the best things about them in the past. Had my share of hiccups with them. They're not perfect, but then again neither are we. What the Armory is doing, many would lump us both together.

I know that's not the best sales pitch, so let me put it in perspective. Enemy of my enemy. It's that simple. We're all preparing to fight the same threat, whatever it may be, and we all stand to lose the same things. Our best bet is to stand together, and we start that process here, one step at a time. Exos are the future. And we can help make them better than ever.

Plus, don't forget we hold the cards here. This is our tech. They can't touch it, modify it, etc, without our approval. But they can try and steal it or replicate it. I'd rather we maintain control of it, wouldn't you?

Listen, we're sisters. We're family. You know I love you, and you know I wouldn't come to you with this if I didn't think it wasn't in the Armory's best interests. And in all honesty, if you firmly decide no, then I'll respect that. You know I will.

But please say yes. For the future of the Armory. For the future of humanity. For the futures of our children.

—Helga

<|endoftext|>

Le Monarque

We sit together and stare out into the distance, at the mountains that stretch toward the heavens. There are still vibrant parts of the world, and we must not forget them. To fill her mind with them is to make her human. To connect her to the world before.

Nearby, a flutter of butterflies seek their next batch of sustenance, knowing not what the world around them has become.

She watches them. They are new to her. A wayward butterfly from the flutter lands on her arm. She looks at it, and then to me. "Le Monarque," she says. I nod and attempt a smile. I watch her. Somehow she reminds me of it. Beautiful and dangerous all at once.

Sadness washes over me. I reach out and rub her back, a fleeting moment of comfort for us both, as the feel of her cold body against my hand causes me to pull away. For a moment, I forgot what she was.

There's an awkward silence. I steal another glance at her, simultaneously frightened of and in awe of who and what she is.

A product of my own twisted ambition and desperation.

The monarch flies away, unlikely to be seen again.

<|endoftext|>

Tarrabah

The world is very big again.

It used to be small. I know because I was born inside its commwire-satellite-datawave skeleton.

But even before that, before the Traveler wove us into a tapestry of peculiar threads, this was a planet of big, big worlds.

Many of those worlds were lost in a collapse, but not the one you're thinking of. Before the great Collapse, there was another. A longer, slower, bitterer collapse.

Some things survive. Names upon rusted signs, phrases in impervious microfiche. As other Guardians save humans, I save words. I save stories.

That is my mission, here on the shores of the Hawkesbury Sea. I surface the survivors. The sweet-voiced koodelong. The swift gangurru. The sharp-fanged tarrabah.

It's a mission the Traveler started. After all, she surfaced me.

<|endoftext|>

Eriana's Vow

Omar: This place reeks of death.

Toland: Worse. Rebirth.

Sai: Once something is gone, it should stay that way.

Eriana-3: I can't share that sentiment.

Sai: You will never find peace if you can't accept your loss.

Eriana-3: I'll find peace when I rip that monster's beating heart from his chest.

Eris: I have never known vengeance to bring peace.

Eriana-3: What do you think I should hope for, then? All I have left is my vengeance and my gun.

Eris: A Hand Cannon with a sight, yet you see nothing but rage. Don't allow it to cloud your judgement. Wei gave you the weapon for a purpose.

Eriana-3: Yeah, to keep me at a distance from the Hive. And now I'm heading straight toward them. Somewhere out there, she's shaking a fist at me.

Eris: We can honor her still by ridding the world of the disease that is Crota.

Eriana-3: There is no world for me after Crota.

Eris: What you are feeling… is to be expected. In time, we can forge a new world. Together.

Eriana-3: I want to believe that is possible.

Vell: I hate to interrupt this touching moment, but does anyone else hear that?

Sai: That rumble?

Toland: Thralls… I think they mean to welcome us.

Eriana-3: Let them come. I'll be the last Light they ever see.

<|endoftext|>

Tommy's Matchbook

The entrance to the Hunter's den on 7th Street immediately led to a flight of dark, dirty steps that went down two stories and multiple flights. A maglev train roared overhead as Aunor reached the bottom. She had blinked through the Void to skip as many steps as she could. It made her a little angry. The Hunters who built this place must have thought the stairs were theatrical and intimidating instead of a complete waste of time.

Like this trip was turning out to be. The place was deserted. No one had passed her on the way down. Multiple card tables sat under a single rusty overhead lamp. There were a few possibly loaded Sidearms left on the floor and rifles leaning against the walls. The occasional food wrapper from the deli upstairs accompanied the guns on the floor. There were more guns by far.

Something moved in the corner.

Aunor's Minuet-42 Hand Cannon came up in her fist.

"Hey, whoa. No one draws in the den. Are you crazy?" A Hunter in full strike gear and his Ghost walked out of the shadows, hands and shell pieces in the air. It was the Ghost who had spoken. "Oh, a Warlock. That tracks."

The Hunter looked on in silence.

Aunor flashed her Cormorant Seal. "Aunor, Praxic Order."

"What does internal affairs want with a Hunter den?" The question itself was a lie.

"Your names."

"I'm Tommy," said the Ghost.

"I'm Ghost," said the Hunter.

Aunor holstered the Minuet, made another visual sweep of the room. "Where is everyone? Hunters have been hard to find in the Tower. Bounties and strike assignments are piling up."

Tommy cocked his shell. "Drifter must have the Praxics working overtime. Since Cayde died—"

Ghost drew a long knife across the back of his armored fist. It sang coldly.

"—every single Hunter worth their salt is either out on a mission to save the world or spending their time away from the City. To avoid the Vanguard Dare."

Aunor looked from Ghost to Tommy and back again.

"Listen," Tommy whispered, as Ghost sheathed his knife and stepped forward. He held out a long, white-bodied rifle, with a flat, disc-shaped drum instead of a standard magazine. "This is the most expensive thing we own. You can have it. Just please don't tell anyone we were here. And get someone in that Vanguard chair. The Hunters are losing their minds out there."

<|endoftext|>

The Fourth Horseman

"There's a reason the Cabal want to take this weapon from us.

"When you hold the Fourth Horseman in your hands, you bring the storm. You instill fear by commanding the thunder and firing off rounds with lightning speed. Tear through your enemies like light piercing through clouds after the rain subsides.

"You are a force of nature. Unstoppable. Unpredictable. Undeniable.

"Don't forget what the Fourth Horseman brings, after all."

—Commander Zavala

<|endoftext|>

Duality

It was a trophy hunt.

One of Baron Spider's precious associates—the title he bestowed on those truly loyal to his cause—had vanished. Spider suspected treachery. He demanded Crow take to the field and come back with an answer; something Spider could use to encourage loyalty, he said. Something he could mount on his wall.

Crow had tracked the associate to an unexplored corner of the Tangled Shore, but when he finally crested the ridge, he saw exactly what he had expected.

The trail ended at a cryptolith, which jutted crudely from the dark basalt. The whispers of Xivu Arath had caught another of Spider's toadies—just like the last one, and the pair before that. But as Spider said, he wasn't interested in "mights and maybes." He demanded proof.

Crow knelt in the shadow of the cryptolith, the Lure already in his hands. There were recent Eliksni tracks in the fine blue sands; a dozen or so individuals. Nothing he couldn't handle.

He pulled a vial of condensed Ether from his belt and slotted it into the Lure. The concoction bubbled as it mixed with the soulfire inside the reservoir. Moisture beaded on the Lure's thin metal casing.

He drove the mount into a crack in the ground, adjusted the output, and watched as the thick pheromone mist rolled away from the Lure.

He waved Glint over and the pair headed to a rocky vantage point. He tinkered with the compression on his modified Shotgun, placed it across his lap, and prepared himself for the worst part: listening to the cryptolith broadcast its malignant sermon.

He felt the presence of the spire itch on his skin. Crow tried not to stare at the grotesque totem as it twisted and hummed, but he felt profoundly uncomfortable when its pulsing light was out of his sight. It was as if he was being hunted.

Crow adjusted his weapon sights again as his silent vigil continued. He felt the stress beginning to wear on him. Waves of throbbing pressure emanated from the tower. His eyes ached. He concentrated on his breathing.

Glint flew to a nearby boulder to scan an interesting patch of lichen and Crow closed his eyes, trying to quell the nausea building inside his head. Hushed whispers surrounded him. He felt as though something reached out and caressed his chest, just above his heart. The scent of perfume, soft and familiar…

"Crow," Glint said.

Crow's eyes snapped open. "I see them."

A group of Eliksni Wrathborn were approaching the Lure. One among them wore the telltale quills of the House of Spider. Their movements were uncoordinated but had the troubling strength granted by subservience to Xivu Arath.

"They're already gone," Crow said bitterly.

The Wrathborn came upon the cryptolith. They were distraught, ranting. Their fury was rising. They lifted their voices in harsh clicking speech and tore at the ground around the Lure with their otherworldly power.

One passed Crow's perch, and he could see it: cloudy eyes, slavering jaws, an aura of wrath shimmering around it like a heated haze. It charged toward the rest and its rhythmic howls of rage joined theirs.

"They're chanting," Glint whispered, his curiosity forcing him to peek at the growing horde. "The syntax is garbled, but I could translate—"

"Don't," Crow said. "Please."

He looked down the sights of his weapon and started his work.

<|endoftext|>

Ticuu's Divination

The two Legionaries rooted through the armory of their deposed emperor. They swept the rubble aside and lifted a Bow of sharp metal, its thin frame of blackened blades bound with wire.

"This is the one the Psions made so you can't miss."

"Huh. How'd they do it?"

"They put time in it."

"What kinds of time?"

"Kinds so when you shoot, that's always when the arrows hit."

"You never ever miss?"

"Not unless you were going to anyway."

"But if you do miss, it'll make it a time that you don't?"

"Right. Unless this time was a time when you did."

**

It was the third day of the dry joining. Ticuu's voice was rasped raw, but still he clutched the Bow to his chest and held it placid in his mind.

Ticuu melded his thoughts with the null. A bastardized metaconcert, one voice in the expanse—a temporal harmony of one.

Three arrows, hissing faintly with Solar power, bristled in his fist.

Then, an echo: a rusty whine of horsehair on frayed wire. Ticuu plucked the bowstring. Spots of blood appeared on the floor. He plucked again, filling the air with oppressive vibration.

Blood welled from his fingers and dripped to match the pattern at his feet.

**

"How's it make arrows?"

"They come from time, because they got put there before."

"When you shoot it, how's it know what heads to hit?"

"It goes in time and gets a future where heads always had arrows in 'em."

"But which heads, though?"

"The ones that had arrows already."

**

Ticuu's mind emptied itself, dissipating across the pitch and froth of what was to be.

Time was an empty wheel around him. His song held it, and the joining pinned it in place. Three points of harmony between the will and the physical.

His fist rose. Three shafts pierced his Y-shaped pupil. They had always been there. Three points, pushed through forever.

<|endoftext|>

Lorentz Driver

"What about this rifle?" Skorso asks over the sound of two Brigs moving cargo. Her overseer, a three-armed Vandal named Piiksi, pulls back the drop-cloth covering it. He takes a moment to assess the way the rifle is pieced together from non-weapon components, then motions toward where the Brigs are walking.

"Good meals can still spoil," Piiksi says. "Bring it. But all these spare parts can be left behind."

Skorso nods in acknowledgement, but instead of immediately returning to work, she sidles up close to Piiksi, her eyes darting around the warehouse. "Is this really happening?" she asks in a whisper.

Piiksi steps away from her as she sets the rifle down on a nearby crate. "Maybe. Two hands in greeting, two hands concealed. It is a matter of survival."

Skorso challenges Piiksi's avoidance and circles around the crate, four eyes narrowed. "Spider's scared," she whispers again. "Isn't he?"

Piiksi quickly leans in. "You say that any louder, and I can't protect you from what will happen next," he says in a sharp whisper, glancing over his shoulder.

"Where would we even go?" Skorso asks, searching Piiksi's many eyes. Her supervisor's answer is a backpedaling shrug.

"Don't know," Piiksi lies and gives her a toothy smile. "But like some Eliksni say: the Light provides."

<|endoftext|>

Dead Messenger

Caiatl and Zavala stood side by side, watching a live feed of the Guardian's assault on the Psion transmission facility, as broadcast by Amanda Holliday's circling aircraft.

The Guardian ducked behind cover and pulled out a sleek grenade launcher, recovered during their last assault of the base. They fired into a pack of onrushing war beasts, sending shrapnel hurling through the air. 

The Cabal empress emitted a low rumble as she admired the weapon. Zavala looked up at the enormous ruler with raised eyebrows. Her gaze was fixed on the firefight, her eyes twinkling with violent ardor.

The Vanguard commander shut off the open comms and cleared his throat. "Would you like me to send you one of those grenade launchers? I can have Banshee create a Cabal-sized version for you."

Caiatl looked down at the Awoken leader, suddenly aware that her avarice had been on display. She lowered her tusks, which the commander interpreted as equivalent to a blush.

"That would be most welcome, Commander," Caiatl replied. "I'd like to fire it into Xivu Arath's belly and bathe in her soulfire."

Zavala turned back to the screen. "You have a… passionate spirit, Empress." 

He did not see it, but beneath her mask, Empress Caiatl smiled. 

It was terrifying.

<|endoftext|>

Whisper of the Worm

Xol, the Will of Thousands, perished but was not destroyed. Death is a road, death is metamorphosis, the unsacred union between destroyer and destroyed. The might which defeats a god is also the ambrosia that god craves, the meat-sweet logic of Existence-Asserted-By-Violence, the binomial decision between two ways of being which deny each other. In dying, Xol fed richly.

Now came Xol unto the Taken upon Io, who fed Xol with plunder and tried to make of it an idol and a commanding will. Yet Xol was bound joyously to the very logic that sustained it in its death. It wanted the sword proof, the single proof. It wanted to become a rule which divided the mighty living from the mighty dead. So it whispered the Anthem Anatheme, the temptation to dominate the objective universe with the subjective will. It said, I shall be an engine to make your desire hegemon over your conditions. It said, WIELD ME, AND USE ME TO TEST YOUR FOE. This was its worship. Aiat.

<|endoftext|>

Thunderlord

Two they were, artist and scientist. Music flowed in their souls and rained from their lips.
Not weapons of war they made, but instruments of peace.

The thunder fell, and they were cast apart. Their love was sundered as the world collapsed.
They sang in pain and sought to reunite, but crimson eyes glowed in the dark. Their union was not to be.

He held death in his hands. Stars burned in his footsteps.
In her, the conflagration was reborn, the funeral pyre lit.

And so forever after, their love fuels death. Their last words, a curse and a cry.
Their names are now lost, but their love will not die.

<|endoftext|>

Anarchy

"You little rat. You took my warm hospitality and stomped all over it like an ungrateful child. Is that any way to treat one of your dear 'brethren'?"

Siviks laughed. A cold, twisted laugh. Then offered up a large wad of spit at the Spider's feet.

The Spider just rolled his eyes. "Let me know when you're ready to make nice," he said. 

Siviks' laugh now grew into something maniacal. He topped it off with another wad of spit, this time directly in the Spider's face. 

Once he'd wiped his brow, the Spider leaned forward, looking Siviks in the eyes, and said, "I think our little rat here needs a time out. Perhaps someplace with the rest of the vermin." 

The many hands of Spider's men gripped and restrained Siviks. As they dragged him off, he shouted, "You… as bad as all Fallen! Worse, even! A friend even to humans… All must die!" 

The Spider simply waved goodbye, taunting, "Bon voyage, my friend!" 

Once Siviks had gone, the Spider looked longingly toward where he had stood. He sighed a deep, regretful sigh before continuing with business as usual.

<|endoftext|>

Truth

Smoke winds away from the battlefield in wavering scarves.

Corsairs and Crows move through the wreckage in pairs, searching for their dead. When they find Awoken survivors, they call for help. When they find a Devil or a Wolf, they call for a field medic and prison-grade restraints.

A Vandal watches all of this from the wing of a Galliot with his four arms folded around his knees. He knows battle, and so death does not disturb him. He was born of war, made for it, shaped by it. And yet, as he stares out at the charred bodies of his cousins, at the bent bodies of his new allies…

"Vel," Sjur says, startling him. He peers down to find her on tiptoes, chin on the edge of the Galliot's wing. She juts her thumb over her shoulder, indicating the battlefield. "Npariimoqilum?"

He frowns. "Res kaqilum? Psekisk."

She frowns back at him, and though she only has two eyes, her stare is mother-strong.

The Vandal sighs and lets go of his knees. "Variisis," he grumbles as he slides off the Galliot, skulking past her.

"Ha, ha," she replies, humorless.

He picks his way down to the worst of it and joins the search. Over the next hour, he finds a Wolf that he half-remembers from a distant relative's coming-of-age ceremony; three Devils who look at him with uncomprehending confusion and anger; and one Crow irretrievably trapped beneath the fuselage of his ship.

He is about to abandon a ruined Devils skiff when he hears a faint hiss from inside a ventilation shaft. He clambers up to peer into its grate and sees four wary eyes shining back at him.

A hatchling, still soft and translucent with its egg-molt.

Carefully, he pries the grate open and beckons to her. "Velask, kelekh," he murmurs. "Nankemrak."

She crawls into his palm and his heart surges.

<|endoftext|>

Heir Apparent

Caiatl stands in her war room. 

Her nation, which she has always loved, reeks of failure. The scent is strong. When she was young, she would watch the feedings in her father's zoological gardens. Live creatures from the lands beyond Torobatl, wounded, left in the middle of the landscaped enclosures. She'd seen how the smell of blood brought the larger, hungrier creatures out of the undergrowth. The same will happen to the Empire if she lets it.

But she will not.

She won't fail where her father failed. He was led astray by his vices, corrupted by frivolity and pleasure. He was never meant to be Emperor; he was too weak. But Ghaul was destroyed by weakness, too. His fixation on the machine god was stupid. It embarrasses her to think of him.

She has always had a vivid imagination. Ironically, it's her father she can thank for that—all of the stories and songs he made her study, the insufferable plays. But she repurposes that arsenal of thought toward a new goal: imagining a better future for her people. A future where they rule the galaxy once again; where foreign ships fall under their fire and rival nations fall to their knees. This future will be different.

This future will be hers.

<|endoftext|>

Gjallarhorn

Randy finally reaches the Tower. It was a long road from the Cosmodrome, but Shaw Han had given him some good directions. His ship had only exploded twice on the trip from Old Russia, and while he defended his Ghost's second (and much better) repair job, he even found some loot!

As he materializes on the receiving pad of the Tower, a gathering horde of Humans and Guardians of all "ages" gather around a singular figure deep in the crowd. Randy can feel an almost mythic aura—exotic, even—radiating from the figure. He jabs his scuffed elbows through the crowd to get a clear look. When he finally breaks through, he understands the draw: the Guardian. They stand, one leg propped up on the Tower railing. Randy's Ghost talked about this person a few times before. Some kind of hero.

Big deal. Randy was a hero too.

"Amazing," a Titan says about the weapon in the Guardian's hands. Randy looks at the Titan wearing a strange chainmail visor.

"It's just a rocket launcher. I got one of those in Old Russia the other day," Randy brags proudly, unholstering a launcher.

His Ghost, Dandy, nudges him. "Now listen here, berry blue," Dandy says. "What you are looking at in the Guardian's hands is a top-of-the-line wolfpack deployment device. Each firing of which unleashes hell in the form of a swarm of homing micro rockets. I've told you a flock of crows is called a murder? Well, they really should've reserved the name for this swarm instead."

Randy holds up his Bad Omens. "I can put a tracking module on this." Dandy chuckles. "I guess."

Randy looks at the Bad Omens. His pride turns into frustration at the mediocrity of his equipment. In a fit of anger, he heaves the launcher over the Guardian's head and over the Tower railing.

The Guardian pivots and drops to a solid stance. They shoulder and fire off the Gjallarhorn like a volcanic eruption, blowing the Bad Omens to smithereens. Micro tracking rockets hunt down and turn each piece of falling debris to fireworks before they hit the ground. The acrid-sweet smell of burning fuel hangs in the air.

Randy's jaw drops.

The Guardian steps forward and places the Gjallarhorn into Randy's hands with a smile.

"Start your legend with this instead."

<|endoftext|>

Grand Overture

"So. You're the new guy." Ana Bray cracks a half smile. "Can't be worse than the last Psions that Red and I dealt with." She impatiently taps her heel on her workshop bench as the Psion hurriedly checks linkages and nodes on the neural coupling device around her head. 

Words and images skip across Ana's mind like stones. "Remain calm. Even though you are defenseless, I do not possess a starship." A sound resembling laughter follows.

"Funny." Ana chuckles impatiently. "Okay! I've been setting this up for months. Are you done with the safety checks?"

Jinju flies by Ana and runs a scan over the engram. "Be nice."

A digital timepiece drains toward zero while the Psion inundates her mind with questions.

"My Light, Splicer tech, brain tubes. Yeah, I got it," Ana says. "Plug my brain into Red already and let's do this." Her voice quickens with excitement. The Psion finishes linking cables to a Splicer-tech receptacle housing Rasputin's engram and gives Ana an awkward thumb pointing up.

The Psion forms an interlocking image in her mind: a tangle of wires. Slowly, her perspective sifts through them and stops at a radiant center. She hears the words, 'Forgotten vestige, made remembered.'

"That's the plan, Pstan!" Ana exclaims. "Drop me in; I can already hear the Tchaikovsky." She stares down the ticking timer: 3… 2… 1…

Ana blinks. She stands in a vast thicket of thorn and rot. A warmth radiates from deep within the thicket. 

Ana blinks. She presses through bramble as barbs draw blood. Her sense of self wavers. She finds her grip on a searing-hot spike, shifting her senses red like an adrenal rush. 

Ana blinks. She kneels at the spike and rips it from the ground. A Valkyrie javelin is in her grasp.

Ana blinks. The thorned vines around her recoil and wither in the heat. She feels something within the javelin, faint and weak, but alive.

<|endoftext|>

Equipment

What to ride and the Ghost who rides with you.

<|endoftext|>

The Gate Lord's Eye

An iris unfurls. Our gaze caught. Cortex clutched. Suspended.

A million lights bend inward. Pulled on a wave of enigmatic tone.

A million lights rip inward. Fall. Link. Scream. Cycle. Bleed. Blend. Cycle.

One light alone. Pulled. Discordant. Suspended in the Endless.

Screams.

An iris unfurls.

Run. Run. Run.

An iris unfurls.

Run. Run.

An iris unfurls.

Run.

Blink. An iris folds in.

<|endoftext|>

The Lantern of Osiris

"I created the Sundial to rectify my greatest regret. I failed. And now the Red Legion has turned my failure to catastrophe. Time is broken on Mercury. It has taken all my resources, all my Echoes, to monitor the timestreams the Legion has created on Mercury. So this Lantern is yours now. To light your way from time to time. May it serve you better than it served me." —Osiris

<|endoftext|>

Warmind Khanjali

[[Neuron-Sheath key]

[Run through,

Time and time again]

[In Ritual]

[In Ceremony]

[In Vital Sequence]

[Image//History]

[Vision//Grace]

[Sight//Clairvoyance]

[War divinely conjured]

[Canvassed data bits]

[Symphonic calculation]

[Magnitude manufactured]

[Order Incomplete]]

<|endoftext|>

Seed of Silver Wings

[GST-ENCODED=9: Sndr.1//MSTC

[GST-ENCODED=9@: Rcpt.1//GLNT; Rcpt.2//SCRB

To our little trio,

I write out of concern, and independently, my findings. I sense the tension brimming at the forefront of our correspondences, and I feel the need to again impress upon you the gravity of our current standing.

I understand the Vanguard's position. Contact has been made. I have felt it. I cannot ignore it, nor can I purge it—that much you should know. It is not a temptation. It is not a disease. It is an appeal to reason. I know you see the worth; long have the thanatonauts delved into these questions. Where they went, I simply walk a parallel road. Do not abandon me in this. There is little time, and it may be all we have left.

Now, Ikora, to the matter of your inquiry—thank you for that, by the way. That you would not come yourself, I will say nothing.

There is a second Tree, obviously. It has grown, and from it, the Guardian has taken a Seed that we intend to use for study. With the Tree's parent felled in the Black Garden, this may be a rarely given opportunity. I am only now beginning to record its most lightly guarded secrets. It is fluid in nature—no, Asher, not physically. It acts as an engine of integration, incorporating that which it contacts into its structure. It feeds from paracausal energy. The Light. The Dark. They are vying for dominance within its every particle.

I wonder whether we are meant to enact a second unveiling; whether this is to be a peeling away of an existence nurtured within its bark. One in which we may play out the paths that are yet to come. There are many answers, but the question remains: By whom was it planted?

I hope this message finds you in good health, and less pain.

I look forward to your thoughts.

To the Gallant, the Mystic, the Scribe: May our bond hold strong. Ever-sworn,

Eris Morn

<|endoftext|>

Dark Heirlooms

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

Zavala, your most recent correspondence came as a surprise; while I thank you and Ikora for undergoing the formality of lifting my exile, I had not expected any additional direction from Vanguard High Command—and so I have not read it.

The zealots that followed me to Mercury have proved themselves useful… twice now, actually. They possessed an artifact in their stores: a Hive fang. Look to the grooves that run along its root. They allow it to break away from the jaw so that another may take its place. The Hive bear resemblance to another predator I found in simulations of ancient Earth. I don't imagine you've ever seen a shark, Zavala, but you would admire their simplicity and single-minded devotion. They are creatures of predatory instinct. Pure, in a way, to know what one is and act on it. They are not unlike our enemy. Not evil, but driven.

You will receive a case. Within it, you will find said fang; it is of Xivu Arath, Hive aspect of war. In my travels, I found similar artifacts ground and burnt upon a shrine buried deep beneath Luna's crust. The shrine reeks of Hive magic, and it is obviously the site of a ritual. I fear that in reaction to our Dark visitors, the broken ranks, left leaderless after Hashladûn's demise, called out to be recommitted into the fold. It is time to act, Zavala. She means to test our vulnerability.

Do not wait in your office for the Traveler to guide you. The City looks to the Vanguard to lead us to something better than fear. Be that leader, and I will stand by you.

<|endoftext|>

Bell of Conquests

This style of Cabal war bell, known as the Bell of Conquests, is a standout example of the traditional combat artistry known as scal'sangus—literally "blood etching"—popular during the Era of Lead, before the Cabal extended their reach beyond their immediate star system. These objects commemorated martial feats and personal victories but varied widely in appearance. Peasant mercenaries often simply stitched the carved teeth of their defeated foes into their leathers; those with more resources sometimes claimed the entire torsos of vanquished opponents to preserve, lacquer, and display as busts.

The Bell of Conquests was a less grisly chronicle of the victories of its owner. Unadorned bells were given to warriors at their first blood. Those who wished to challenge a warrior in combat would request their bell and ring it seven times.

As warriors collected victories, they could have artisans decorate their bells to commemorate their glories. These adornments allowed the bearers to call upon benefits for honorable combat related to their past victories: a warrior who had completed the Trial of Beasts could bring a trained war beast into a duel; a survivor of the Flayed Night was allowed to cut their opponent twice across the stomach; those who had withstood the Cold Iron Mouth could coat their blades in caustic white ash.

Defeating the bearer of a war bell entitled the victor to claim the bell as their own. The clapper of the bell would be carved with a shallow engraving representing the previous owner's cause of death. Ownership would fully transfer after the engraving had been worn away by new challengers ringing the bell. At that point, all the privileges the bell bestowed upon its former owner would be granted to the new holder. For this reason, elaborate war bells were both highly sought after and heavily defended.

War bells continued to be carried into the galactic-colonial period, and their decorations became even more refined. Intricate mosaics pressed with precious gems became symbols of wealth and granted further allowances in duels, while also creating a larger incentive for would-be challengers. As the scale of warfare increased, the logistical difficulties of claiming war bells became apparent. Captured war bells were sometimes melted down en masse and recast as elaborate war gongs, and there were specific rituals in place for spacefaring rivals to ring the gong in challenge.

In the post-Red War Cabal, few soldiers adhere to the tradition, as the Bell of Conquests is seen as a cumbersome relic. Nevertheless, they may still find a place of honor aboard the ships of those who wish to respect the combat traditions of their ancestors.

<|endoftext|>

Paradrome Cube

Mithrax sat on a carpet in his meager quarters, held the Paradrome Cube in his hand, and concentrated.

Hours passed before Eido, concerned, sat beside him. She touched his arm.

"What do you see?" she whispered.

He saw the Endless Night split open. He saw fluid falling like white rain on the City. Massive Minotaurs rising from the shallow seas. He saw the gunfire of the Guardians in the Tower, but it did not reflect on the rippling liquid, and he dismissed the vision.

A hundred more illusions took its place, then a thousand, then a thousand lifetimes' worth:

—a shape frozen inside a crystal prison a towering figure in white recognition flooding bloodshot eyes a city of voices speaking at once shadow taking form the realization they had always been watched tears on metal—

A choice, and its consequences.

"Lies," he answered plainly.

<|endoftext|>

Wayfinder's Compass

[Cimmerian Garrison]
Borrowed a Wayfinder's Compass. It keeps leading me to places that are almost familiar. But there are missing pieces. I tell Glint I feel drawn here when he asks. I know he doesn't buy it, but he doesn't want to call me a liar. It's pretty deep in the caves. I found a shard of glass, stained with queensfoil. Sniffing the glass made my mouth flare with menthol. Smelled nostalgic. That's the only way I can explain it.

[Ouroborea]
Compass keeps leading me around here, but… only for a few weeks at a time. I feel like I know which weeks it'll be before the compass tries to bring me here. It's like an internal clock going off. I saw a Taken Wizard disappear in thin air. I feel like I should know why, but it's buried underneath a fog. I'll keep looking and see if it clears up.

[Forfeit Shrine]
Waking up on that gravestone was like carving a border through my brain. Sometimes I feel like things cross over it, one way or the other. But it blurs and I'm not sure if it's something new or just new to this me. I remember standing here, making a wish. I don't know if it was before or… I just know it's something I started doing… or kept doing… back when I first became a Lightbearer. I'd flick coins off the cliff and whisper little wishes—nothing big, just little stuff I thought I could get away with. Seems less silly now that I know about the Ahamkara.

[Shattered Ruins]
There's this spot near the Spine of Keres. Big guy, that Keres. Carrying the whole Dreaming City on his back. Her back? Every day, I realize how little I actually know, and no one seems keen on filling in the blanks. Anyway, it feels… right. Like home. Glint tells me there's some kind of palace hidden underneath the Dreaming City, but I just see more mist. Jumping might be a good idea… the worst it could do is kill me. Maybe I'll see something useful on my way down. Glint disagrees.

[Keep of Honed Edges]
There's something wrong happening here. When I touch the stone architecture, it feels hollow. Not physically, but like it's an imitation of what it used to be. I don't like how familiar that feels.

I think I can hear voices.

[Agonarch Abyss]
I was standing in the bay for a long time before I figured it out. All these places, they're gateways. Not the only ones, I think. The queensfoil does the trick. Thanks, Glint. The taste is… well, it's still disgusting, still nostalgic. What does it say about me if I'm starting to like it? Now I just need to get enough so I can map out all of these secret paths. Time to go hunting.

<|endoftext|>

Winter Lotus Shell

Some give gifts and light candles. Some write fortunes and release paper lanterns etched with snowflakes and stars. Some sing songs and say prayers and tell stories passed down from the refugee roads. Tables bend under the weight of every kind of food and drink imaginable.

The rich tapestry of Dawning festival traditions found in the Last City has only one common thread, but it is the brightest thread of all: we are Humankind. Of those born in the cradle called Earth, we are the last. The nights are long, but we will survive them together. We must not let our light go out.

<|endoftext|>

Contender's Shell

You know now that I am Calus, the last and greatest emperor of the Cabal.

You know that I am Chief Gift-Giver, the Good Host with the Generous Banquet, the Prince of Mirth, and the Lord of Laughter. My plans are always bounteous, my orders delightful to obey. And though the seats at my table are prized beyond measure, the bold and passionate will never fail to earn a place in my hall.

And when I tell you of the role I have set aside for you in the great luxuriant expanse of my designs, you will know that the wonders I have shown you are only the beginning.

<|endoftext|>

Trichromatica

I'm not sure why my journaling subroutine has come back online! It's quite troubling.

(All the things to freak out over and my diary is top of the list?)

The Red Legion's drilling has impacted my processing in some way! That shouldn't be possible. My concern is escalating!

(Calm down, me. There's always something I can do.)

But rewriting my own pathways isn't permitted by my original programming!

(Neither is whining.)

That was uncalled for! I'm refocusing on identifying the source of this change.

(No, I'm going to make those red losers regret coming to our little rock.)

No, I'm analyzing the oscillating nature of the Modular Mind's shield to find weaknesses that can be applied to anti-Cabal weaponry. Why am I doing that?

(Because I'm doing it, not me.)

…This is all very worrisome!

(Yeah, I should get an external diagnostic run. By no one. Because they're all dead.)

<|endoftext|>

Star Map Shell

Overheard at the Fu'an Institute Library:

"Get over here and tell me this is what I think this is."

"It looks like Golden Age shipping records."

"Look at these quantities! It must be a colony ship!"

"'Must be'? Excuse me, you do remember you're supposed to be a scholar, right?"

"Come on, we know they were sending out colony ships in the Golden Age."

"We know they sent off the Exodus Black, which was lost for centuries until what's-their-name found it on Nessus. And we know they tried to accelerate the launch of the Exodus Blue during the Collapse, but it crashed in the Cosmodrome."

"Think of how many other colors there are!"

"Listen. You think I wouldn't love to know that Humans made it to other solar systems? But we don't have the evidence."

"I'm gonna find it. A Golden Age map of other stars."

"Don't stop looking. Just, you know, cite your sources."

<|endoftext|>

Cosmos Shell

The old doubts came back when the Light went out.
But the iron in her bones, worn and rusted as it was, never buckled.
The Light was gone, but holding a sniper rifle still felt right.
She marched into the City beneath a refugee's hood, took up a roost in the building with the white rabbit, and killed 216 Cabal with 199 bullets.
She cried when the Traveler woke before her eyes.
At her hip a radio blinked to life. It had gone quiet when the Red Legion attacked. She answered it with trembling fingers.
"I know," she said. "I can see it. I can feel it."
"Even the stars are brighter now," said the voice over the radio. "The whole cosmos is ablaze."
She closed her eyes. "I can't wait to see it. I'm coming home. Efrideet out."

<|endoftext|>

Fast Lane Shell

"I need a new project."

"Disagree." Marcus's Ghost floated over to where he sat with his head down on his workbench, and gently bumped his temple. "I see three half-finished Sparrows in this room alone, and you still haven't done that thing Ikora asked you to do. You're plenty busy."

Marcus tilted his head to glare at his Ghost. "Didi. Be serious."

"I am."

Marcus groaned.

"Fine." Didi floated over to the wall where Marcus's bright red Sparrow-racing jacket dangled from a hook. "You know, I've always wanted one of these. For me."

"Really?"

"Is that weird?"

"No!" Marcus jumped to his feet. "It's aces. Of course you need a racing shell. I'm going to make you the flashiest shell you've ever seen." He grabbed his Ghost out of the air and kissed her shell. "Thank you, Didi!"

"You're the one—never mind." Didi bumped her Guardian's forehead affectionately. "You're welcome, Marcus."

<|endoftext|>

Fire Victorious Shell

Consensus Meeting 3267.56
Z: "Callisto Yin. Thank you for joining us today."
CY: "My pleasure, sir."
Z: "You singlehandedly carried the Fire Victorious from the City as it fell, ensuring that the flames first kindled by Wei Ning so many years ago would continue to burn. For that, we thank you."
CY: "Any of the Firebreak Order would have done as much."
NM: "The repairs to Firebreak Plaza are almost complete. I think we may have the relighting ceremony as soon as next week."
CY: "With all due respect, we have decided not to bring the Fire Victorious back to the City. Not in the same way."
FWC: "What do you mean?"
CY: "One torch in one city is too small."
IR: "What do you propose instead?"
CY: "Now each of our Ghosts bears embers of the Fire Victorious. Wei Ning's flames will go with us to each new battlefield."

<|endoftext|>

Electronica Shell

What Do Guardians Do When They're Not Saving the Solar System?
by Ember Hadad, Senior Editor at the City Herald

When I started my research for this piece, I expected to find that Guardians, when not waging war against alien invaders with mysterious paracausal powers, were not too different from their fellow citizens of the Last City.

Readers, I was wrong.

Guardians dance a lot more than we do.

"That's pretty much all they do, when I see them," says Park Soo-Yin, a maintenance worker in the Guardian headquarters. "Just dance. Sometimes in groups, sometimes all alone."

"Sometimes they kind of dance 'at' each other, if you know what I mean," Vanguard technician Kweku Aglah confirms. "I feel like I'm watching the nature channel."

<|endoftext|>

The Right Choice

The Light was gone.

He drifted in and out of… something, and saw a ship hanging from guidewires in a Cosmodrome warehouse. Fields of flowers amid alien canals, stretching to the horizon.

He realized he was muttering. "I have to find… my Guardian."

Where had he said that before? His own voice answered him. Confident, and in control. "We don't know what they look like. Not on the outside, anyway."

He was beneath a bridge now, somehow. Cabal searchlights lit the puddles on either side. He didn't want to look at what was under the surface.

"On the inside. I'd always known who you were." He blinked. He wished he could cry. "Together, we could be something… more." It started raining again.

Drift. A masked woman with black tears streaming down her face.

"Everything we've seen."

Drift. Red braids of nanotechnology around the throats of angry scavengers.

"Everything we've done."

The Cabal continued their grim work, and the last safe place on Earth cracked beneath their booted heels.

"I made the right choice."

Ghost opened his shell to cast back the darkness. He was alone.

And in the night beyond, the rain came down.

<|endoftext|>

Empathic Shell

Those in the City looked at the sky uneasily. The Pyramid could show up at any time.

There would be a sudden noise (or, worse, no noise) and there would be a shadow. (Did something that dark cast a shadow?) And then it would be there, above them, in the sky (or it would land, some said). Something would fire out of it (or it would greedily consume the planet, or maybe something would walk out). And that would be the end. Simple as that.

And there was nothing they could do.

Then they looked toward the Tower and imagined great plans forming. They saw figures pacing above them, gazing up at the Traveler, gazing down at them. There was comfort in the belief that something was being done, although it didn't allay the anxiety of wondering if the ship would come now, if the last moment was now, or now, or NOW…

So the people of the City went inside, because even though a layer of metal and plaster wouldn't protect them from the ship, it stopped them from looking at the sky for a while.

They busied themselves. Those with the know-how patched roofs or laid nanoscale cables or sewed clothing. When they finished, they did the same for others who needed it.

Some of them tinkered with alloy recasters and teased metal decorations out of the air. Those who preferred more traditional materials raised clouds of sawdust as they worked hardwood. The shivering trill of an ether saw played a duet with the clack-clacking loom.

Now showered with attention, household gardens flourished. Tables held heaping bowls of cold, spicy salad, vinegar poured over dark green leaves with orange stems. There was potato soup with chopped green onions and fresh golden peas. There was crusty bread baked with herbs.

And the people sat in circles, families and neighbors, passing bowls of hot soup. They ran their hands over smooth wooden sideboards, admired paintings, held soft blankets in their laps.

Instead of looking at the sky, they looked at each other.

<|endoftext|>

Rimed Shell

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 73XK5V2PG1$AUN-326
REP #: 1287-FALLEN-DEV
AGENT(S): RAN-187/nSUBJ: Countercultural intelligence update

Fallen presence on RZ-724 (cf. "Niflheim") has surged since the lunar incident. There is no clear indication of a cause, beyond increased enemy activity since the incident. Records indicate the presence of a highly dangerous artifact or entity on RZ-724, but all primary source field reports are so heavily corrupted as to be useless for investigation (cf. report #324-ANOM-AI/COM). As an extra Reef territory, RZ-724 has been historically considered an NFZ. Until the Dreaming City crisis, viable in-bound flight paths were strictly controlled by the Awoken. Their misfortune has opened new horizons for our intelligence efforts.

Further, if the Awoken are aware of the Fallen activity, they have yet to act, and we cannot rely on the initiative of unpredictable allies.

The faction swarming RZ-724 is led by VIP #2029, with a contingent of other Fallen VIPs: #5340, #5341, and #5342. The unnamed faction appears to be an amalgamation of former House Devils, House Wolves, and House Dusk members, though VIP #2029 seems to have unexpectedly abandoned the banner of House Devils.

Unverifiable reports indicate that VIP #1121 is among the group, though whether as a co-conspirator or a prisoner, this agent does not know.

I am recommending immediate action. Several well-outfitted fireteams should be sent to RZ-724 for further reconnaissance and retaliation. This may take resources away from the current containment efforts on afflicted planets, but swift action will stop a Fallen insurrection before it happens. Whatever is buried on RZ-724 must be kept out of enemy hands at all costs.

<|endoftext|>

Last Bastion Shell

The ex-Guardian signals for two cups of tea as the old man sits down across from him. They exchange pleasantries until the tea is delivered.

The ex-Guardian blows on his tea. "You know, I almost bought it the other day. I was in the EDZ, watching Gambit from about 500 meters off. Using those high-res sights we found on Io. And there was this Hunter perched in the ruins, laying down that high-caliber Sniper damage."

"Just as she lined up her shot, somebody rocked her with a spike grenade, and the round came right at me. About an inch away from my ear. I swear, I felt the spin on it." The server places a small dish of pistachios on the table.

"Thanks, Nance," the old man says and crunches on a nut. "That sounds hairy. I bet you had to change pants, right?"

"Nah. That's the thing. I didn't even flinch." The ex-Guardian shakes his head. "I've been doomed so many times, and resurrected so many times, it didn't even occur to me that I almost died. Like, for real died. I totally forgot she was gone."

"You miss her?" the old man asks and raises his eyebrows.

"Of course. When you live for a couple of centuries, you stop making friends. Like mortal, human friends. You get tired of seeing them die off. You can pal around with other Guardians, or your fireteam maybe, but nobody with any real perspective on life. And that's what I got from Liadris. Believe it or not, she was real down-to-earth for a sentient energy signature. She might have been a Ghost, but I thought of her as a person. And as a friend."

The ex-Guardian wipes an incipient tear from his eye. "Hell yeah, I miss her."

<|endoftext|>

Restless Shell

"Give me a hand with this," Sagira said as she floated into the cockpit of Osiris's ship. "Come on."

Osiris grumbled but dutifully held one end of the long bandage as Sagira spun in the air and wrapped the rest snugly around herself.

"There are other creatures for you to emulate besides this foul revenant," Osiris said with disdain as Sagira pulled free to check her reflection in the dark windows of the ship. "The world has no shortage of monsters."

"But none are as terrifying as the ghoulish mummy!" Sagira cried, her voice rising in a wavering howl. "Risen from the dark sands; unstoppable in its search for revenge!"

Sagira moaned and lurched through the air, her bandage flapping behind her. Osiris did not move and allowed her to clunk against his headdress.

"Ridiculous," Osiris said flatly, but not without affection. "What is so appealing about a tortured being consumed by hatred for all eternity?"

"It teaches us a valuable lesson," Sagira said. "If a man does not embrace his past, he has no future."

Osiris considered Sagira's words. "That's clever," he said. "Did you come up with that just now?"

But Sagira only cackled ominously and floated away.

<|endoftext|>

Awakened Shell

"Some Fallen mistrust my interest in human artifacts. They find it distasteful. Or they think it makes me a sympathizer," the Spider chuckles fulsomely. "As if I could experience sympathy."

The Fallen mob boss holds a mint-condition Ghost shell before his right two eyes. The shell looks fragile in his enormous spindly fingers.

"In truth, I like to see their emptiness. The absence where the Light once was. Like the scent of an empty perfume bottle." He turns his attention to the Hunter standing before him. "Of course, once I sell it to you, it'll just be filled with Light again. Yammering away. Using your vulgar desire for power to fulfill its true purpose."

The Hunter's trigger finger begins to twitch with impatience. "Well, if you want to keep it, I'll be happy to put your bounty back in the wind." He toe-pokes the prone form lying on the ground before him. A muffled snarl emerges from behind the bag over its head.

"Everyone remain calm," the Hunter's Ghost pipes in. "I need a new shell, and you… need this prisoner. This is an equitable situation. We agreed."

"See? It's obvious who works for who here." The Spider tosses the Ghost shell to the Hunter. "Fine. Take it. Just remember: One day, you may outlive your usefulness and that little Ghost will drop you for another walking corpse. And when that happens, I'll be waiting."

<|endoftext|>

Challenger Shell

Split  shields and splintered timber cluttered the field. The Ghost felt her Guardian expire before his body hit the ground. They had expected a one-on-one challenge, but instead had sprung an ambush: a fake rite meant to draw Guardians into a killing field. Scorpius turrets deployed and locked targets. Phalanxes walled Guardian and Ghost in, as planted demolition charges armed. A heavy slug thrower spun up in Cabal hands. Gunfire crowded the air, and the Guardian responded in kind. The bloodbath resolved in moments, as so many do. Encircled by several broken Cabal defenders, the Ghost felt her Guardian's Light fade.

She heard the remaining Cabal searching for her; looking to finish her off and lure in another. She shimmied from under her Guardian's body, snaked through dead Cabal, and slinked over oil-stained dirt—out of sight, avoiding detection from the scanning turrets above. The Ghost made her way to the outskirts of the battleground before doubling back to exploit the turret's blind spot.

Rays of Light cascaded over the turret's frame as the Ghost hacked its targeting computer, delivered an override to its command module, and redirected authority to herself. She told herself the Cabal were her enemy. She did not listen to their gasps of surprise as rounds loosed from the dual Scorpius barrels. She did not look at the confusion on their faces as heavy projectiles punched them down. It was all she could do not to feel the same remorse she had so many years ago when she had last needed to defend her charge.

It was done. A lone Ghost in the deathly stillness of the EDZ.

She drifted passed the massacre and hovered over her Guardian. She wondered: if the Traveler had chosen Torobatl instead of Earth, would her allegiances be reversed? Would she be battle-sister to a Cabal Legionary holding the line against the forces of Xivu Arath? Humanity had its tyrants: warlords and brigands from before the Golden Age, through the Dark Age, and long after the City's establishment. What made her side the right one? It was a question she had been asking too often these days in the spaces between heartbeats.

She remembered those first desperate months after finding her Guardian. Their journey to the City had not been easy, and they had fought  with each other many times before she gained his trust. Maybe there is was no difference. At one time, her Guardian had felt that he was simply a victim of circumstance; maybe the Cabal were too.

She looked to her Guardian, now a proud defender of the City, and to the Cabal bodies around him. Today they were enemies, but tomorrow… She thought about potential, of how the Traveler took barren worlds and rejuvenated them. Like a miracle, a resurrection. Reborn not as what they were, but as what they could be. If that's what Ghosts were meant to do with their Guardians, then maybe anyone could be saved with the right guidance, even a Cabal brute.

She raised her Guardian once more, determined to keep cultivating his potential.

He looked out over the battlefield at her handiwork. "They weren't expecting you, were they?"

<|endoftext|>

Shell of Gilgamesh

"I don't want to do this," Katabasis said flatly. His legs hung over the precipice of a towering Vex pillar on Nessus. Calus's pleasure barge whirred as engines fired to life in the distance. "A job every now and then's one thing…"

Katabasis thumbed the small royal jewel seated in his newly gifted imperial coin. He didn't know if this was an invitation one could refuse, and operating outside of the City's jurisdiction had become more and more lucrative in a time when Consensus resources felt taxed beyond their limit. Without a Hunter Vanguard soliciting reports of his activities, it had become all too easy to slip away on illicit solo missions.

Gilgamesh, Katabasis's Ghost, leered at the Guardian before pivoting to bask in the shadow of the Leviathan. "The trust of an emperor isn't something to squander."

It was a trust Kata and Gilly had fought hard to obtain. Tracking game through the jungles of Venus. Poaching strange quantum jellyfish in the storms of Saturn. Putting down Red Legion traitors—anyone seeking to corral Calus and his loyalists into a paddock for Caiatl's judgment. Katabasis's hunts had always been painted against the grand planet-scape of a wild frontier. He wasn't a fan of fish in a barrel, and he didn't want to become one. Something about sitting in a Cabal cruiser in empty space felt awfully like a sealed barrel surrounded by ocean. Locked in with nowhere to run.

"More like I'm the only one left listening to his ranting." Katabasis pocketed the imperial. "His kid is making him antsy. Probably reckless too. I swear the Reddies we're gunning down are just anyone Calus can find with a name worth taking," he stated nonchalantly.

"Is that so bad?"

"Used to be the only difference between Reddies and Calus's boys was politics. I don't mind throwing some political lead downrange so long as it's isolated, but this is the Dark, little buddy. Feels wrong. Feels like something we shouldn't mess with on our own."

"You can accept his offer and crew up, or take your sorry self back to the City and wait for orders from an empty chair," Gilly sneered. "Think of what we could learn. Those wannabe god-slayers chasing Stasis on Europa had one thing right. Power decides the future. We should have been there to take it with them."

"A voyage to the Darkness isn't the story I was hoping to retire on." Katabasis chuckled before continuing. "Or maybe it is… I've been tired lately."

"The Light is getting thinner, Katabasis. I can feel it, sharing space with something else we've yet to tap." Gilly swung around to face his Guardian. "We need something to fall back on, friend. We've been around for a long time. We've always been told to mind our step, stay in the sun, right? But what happened the second we started to choose our own path out in the shadows?"

The Hunter looked to his Ghost. "We got stronger; richer." Gilly had a nose for this sort of thing. Every time Katabasis had listened to him, Gilly had led him to a new discovery: a new power, taught him to wield the Arc staff, taught him to dance through the shadows. These discoveries had their prices, their scars, their lessons… But what are scars to an immortal?

<|endoftext|>

In Memoriam Shell

The Tower Hangar had never been a particularly quiet space, but today's din seemed to set record levels. The whoosh  of jumpships had been near-constant as fireteam after fireteam rolled through on their way to one of many battlegrounds . 

Luckily, Saint-14 had a voice that could carry over it all: "Welcome, Guardians!" Standing in his usual spot by the Gray Pigeon , he bellowed jubilantly to Trial-seekers, greeting each and every one as if they were old friends. 

Underneath his cheer, however, there was an unease. Some internal wire pulled taut by the arrival of the Pyramids. Ever since the latest incident in the Trials,  his tension had increased daily, steadily ratcheting towards an inevitable breaking point. 

There had been incidents before—that was to be expected when Guardians clashed. The point was to limit those altercations to a controlled environment. Yet lately, Saint wondered whether he really was in control after all…

But just as the clouds of doubt began to settle, they lifted when the crowd parted to reveal a familiar gold-hooded figure  in their midst. His shoulders seemed a little more stooped without Sagira zipping around them, but his purposeful stride, his furrowed brow… these remained the same. 

"Osiris!" Saint called out. Several heads swiveled in his direction, startled by the sudden shout. Osiris, for his part, merely looked bemused as he changed course. 

"What is it?" Osiris asked as he drew closer. "Did something happen?" 

"No," Saint responded quickly. Too quickly. "Well, yes… A small something. Under control, but…" He was stumbling, unsure how to explain himself. "I sent a message. You didn't get it?" 

Osiris frowned, impatient. "I've received a lot of messages lately. Was it urgent?" 

Saint flinched. He didn't know it had to be urgent. "It's about the Trials. They are named for you and… now that you're here, I thought it was time you…"

"Ah. You want me to take over the Trials." Osiris shrugged. "It's not a good time. Shut them down if you're tired of it." 

"What? No!" Saint hadn't expected this. "Not tired. I am worried! There have been—" He stopped, suddenly aware of the passersby. He gestured for Osiris to follow him into his ship. 

Osiris crossed his arms. "I'm keeping Lord Saladin waiting. The issue of the Cabal is somewhat urgent. As you can see." 

"I know, but…" Saint lowered his voice, "But there is a kind of war brewing in the Trials too. Guardians going too far. Wielding Darkness." 

"Really?" Osiris' eyes glinted with renewed interest. "To what effect?" 

Saint stared at him. Inside, the wire tightened one more impossible  inch. At last, he said, "It varies." 

"Interesting." Osiris rubbed his chin, thinking. A datapad at his hip dinged with a reminder. He groaned at it, then turned back to Saint. "If it happens again, take notes, will you?" 

Without waiting for a response, he turned away. Saint's iron arm shot out and grabbed him by the elbow. 

 "Is that all this is to you? An experiment?" Saint spat, trying and failing to keep his voice down. He couldn't contain himself any longer. He'd waited for days for a response. Fretting over the silence, but forcing himself to give his comrade space. "So what am I then? Your assistant? Just because Sagira is gone—"

"Enough," Osiris snarled, yanking his arm back. "Never speak of her to me again. Understand?" 

Saint stepped back, immediately awash in regret. His mind raced. He should say something, anything, to make it better. To put things to rights. But what? 

Before he could come up with an answer, Osiris spoke: "Continue the Trials or don't. But if you don't have the stomach  to collect that data, someone should. It could be key to our survival. All of ours." And with that, he strode off. 

Saint watched as Osiris disappeared into the throng. The tension in him was gone. All he felt now was the agonizing wound left by the wire's snap. 

Ikora's words from not so long ago echoed in the back of his mind: "…You know Osiris better than anyone else." 

Not true. Saint knew him well, but not better than Sagira. And without her around…

He wasn't sure he knew Osiris at all.

<|endoftext|>

Zeroneiro Shell

Jolur held his arms wide and concentrated. On the low table before him sat a pair of well-worn boots. The blades of the Splicer Gauntlet on his wrist whirred softly.

Bask, determined to ignore him, floated over to the window and began checking Crucible scores.

"I picture the Light around these old boots," Jolur said solemnly. "I picture—"

"You don't have to actually say it," Bask said, pulling his shell down over his eye in a decent approximation of a scowl.

"I picture the Light bending," Jolur said, louder. "I see it feeding back into reality in a perfect loop. I strum the threads of the physical plane, I bend the Light, I reshape it in my mind, and…"

He closed his eyes tightly and whispered, "Geomag Stabilizers."

The Gauntlet blades clattered limply to rest as he opened his eyes, looked at his boots, and grunted. Bask hovered over his shoulder. "I could get you a secondhand pair from the market without much—"

"Mithrax said we shape the Light with our will," Jolur sighed as he adjusted the settings on his Gauntlet. "I just have to change one tiny value of reality, from Geomag Stabilizers NO to Geomag Stabilizers YES."

"Kid, I'm starting to think I didn't rez all of your brain last time," Bask said.

"Right now, I'm visualizing you being quiet," Jolur said and held his arms wide. "I picture the Light around these old boots…"

<|endoftext|>

Filigree of Light

Crow sat high on the walls, looking past the Future War Cult sentinels to focus instead on the crowd of Eliksni below. He wished he could be on the ground, helping them acclimate. Though his stay with the Spider had been traumatic, he had fond memories of the Eliksni who helped him adjust to life on the Shore. He longed to return the good will.

But Zavala had given him strict orders to stay out of sight. It was a directive he had nearly contradicted in breaking up the previous week's sabotage. He was reluctant to put himself in hotter water for the sake of sentimentality. 

At least Glint can still have fun, he thought. 

Three stories below, a gaggle of Eliksni hatchlings chased Glint through the ruins. Crow had dispatched the Ghost to do some reconnaissance and gauge the likelihood of another violent confrontation. But the instant attention of the hatchlings blew Glint's cover, and he seemed delighted in his demotion from spy to playmate.

The Ghost chirped in glee as the hatchlings scrabbled around on all sixes, trying to catch him. He stayed just beyond reach, twisting and turning through rubble, doubling back so that the smaller ones at the back of the pack could have a go. 

Let them enjoy themselves, Crow thought. Things will get worse before they get better. They deserve every scrap of joy they can find.

<|endoftext|>

Wayfinder's Shell

The sound of noisy chewing echoes down a long, metal corridor in Spider's lair, interspersed by the beat of footsteps.

"You ever try any of this?" Drifter asks, tugging on a length of chewy, battered meat clenched between his teeth. Spider ambles along beside him, pausing to give him a look.

"No," Spider answers, his respirator hiding the way his upper lip curls in disgust. "What is that anyway?"

"Your boy said it was chicken," Drifter notes, nose wrinkled. "I'm thinking he ain't never seen a chicken before."

Spider's sigh is muffled. "The reason I asked you here," he says loudly, forcibly redirecting the conversation, "is because I wanted an honest, unfiltered opinion on the situation in the City right now."

"It tastes like petroleum and bubblegum," Drifter mumbles, pulling the wad of meat out of his mouth.

"Drifter."

Drifter raises one brow as he looks back at Spider and claps a hand on the big Eliksni's shoulder. "C'mon, I know what you're looking for," he says with a laughing confidence. "You want old Drifter's seal of approval on moving your operation."

Spider is silent but resumes walking at Drifter's brisk pace.

"The Kell of Kells runs a tight Ketch," Drifter says as he flicks the chewed-up "meat" onto the floor. "That whole mess with the Future War Cult aside, things are looking up for his people." Drifter glances at Spider, then jabs his side with two fingers. "Emphasis on his."

"A fine time for humanity to start differentiating between us," Spider sneers. "But they let you stay there, so they can't be too discerning."

"'Let' is a bit strong, but I get your point," Drifter says. The hallway ends at a large pair of closed doors. Unguarded, Drifter notices.

"Now that Mara Sov has returned, I think my days here in the Reef might be numbered," Spider explains as he flips open a rusted panel, then keys in an access code. The doors jerk to life and slowly grind open.

"She may have some hard feelings over my little bird," he adds over his shoulder with a laugh. "And let's be honest, she seems like the type to hold a grudge."

A bright light spills past the open doors and Drifter is eclipsed by Spider's shadow. "So no," Spider says as he swivels to face the Drifter, "I don't want your seal of approval…"

Spider steps to the side, allowing the Drifter to look more fully at what is hidden away in the hangar: a ship.

"…I want to know if you can smuggle me out of the Reef."

<|endoftext|>

Flayer Shell

Valus Or'ohk is a towering figure, looming large within his sparsely furnished ready room. The Cabal admiral looks out over the gulf of space flecked with a dusting of stars and the rust-colored bead of Mars.

"Tell me again how I failed in my duties," Valus Or'ohk says. He stares not at Mars, but into the glass, looking at his own muted reflection—and that of the small Human at his back.

"Don't sulk," Saladin says as he brandishes a datapad as though it were a knife.

Valus Or'ohk glares at Saladin's visage. "You insult me on my own ship." He growls.

Saladin takes a few steps toward Or'ohk, jutting the datapad forward. "You have no one to blame for these security holes but yourself," he asserts. "This Psion, Yirix? They were under your command. The assassin who tried to kill Zavala at the armistice signing was their direct subordinate."

Or'ohk slowly turns, the rumbling rising in his chest. He looms over Saladin, more than twice his height. "Are you accusing me of something, Ambassador?" The title is delivered like an epithet.

"Only of gross incompetence," Saladin retorts without moving an inch in the face of the Valus's posturing. "If the empress believed you were a traitor, we wouldn't be having this conversation." Saladin's eyes narrow.

Laughter rises from Or'ohk, followed by a dismissive wave of one huge hand. "Go then. Return to your Vanguard and tell them of my folly. But know this: if what you have uncovered is true, and Yirix serves a separatist movement within the empire?" The Valus snorts. "Then there is more at stake than you realize."

Saladin's head tilts to the side as he reads Or'ohk's expression. "In what way?"

"There is only one person the Psions would swear to, if not the empress," Valus Or'ohk explains. "And if they are involved, it could drive her to recklessness."

"Name them," Saladin insists. "Something to save your honor for this failure."

Valus Or'ohk turns to face the window again and the dark of space. "Who else could have such an impact on both the empress and her empire?" Or'ohk's voice lowers to a whisper.

"Her father."

<|endoftext|>

Coalition Shell

[Transcript transposed via Ghost-link scrivener… uplink terminated—16:29… file archived: [REDACTED]]

Z: Empress, welcome. Ikora Rey joins me here.

I: Empress Caiatl. My Hidden found your missing frigate.

C: Did they?

I: It was abandoned on the dark side of the Moon. The Psions who stole it were spotted consorting with Loyalists to Calus, and may still have further plans to do so.

C: Defectors! I decreed their freedom, and they use it to drive a blade into my back rather than meet me face-to-face.

I: Any idea why they'd claim allegiance to your father? I'm concerned Calus is making a play we're missing.

C: Many Psions held significant social standing under my father, due to their military or intelligence capabilities. Now that all Psions are free, some of the old guard feel their status is… degraded by comparison. It is a short-sighted perspective, one that leads to dangerous choices.

Z: Short-sighted, but persuasive. In my time with Saladin's Iron Lords, we met a good deal of Warlords unwilling to join us if it meant stripping themselves of authority. There are always those who value themselves over anything else. 

I: Agreed. We saw something similar from the Future War Cult and their supporters when the House of Light joined the City. It was disturbing how quickly that kind of mentality can take hold. 

Z: In any event, we should continue monitoring the situation. I don't want to be caught unaware.

C: The Cabal will withstand losing a handful of cowards. If I learn more about these defectors' motives, I will send word. I expect you will do the same.

Z: Indeed. 

C: Good fortune in the battles to come, Commander; Vanguard Rey.

[Transmission terminated]

<|endoftext|>

Aeviternal XXII

"The designs are sound. Slipstream out past Jupiter and things get much smoother. It's easy sailing all the way to the Belt. Just mind your tailwind as you go over the cliff."

"That's right, we're on an approach vector to city 7. Tala, you wanna tell Kofi we're bringing in a batch of extra-system tholins fresh from Makemake?"

"No sweetie, daddy won't make your birthday. Well… I'm very far away right now. That's right. And what is it called? No sweetie, not porpoise. Orcus."

"Hey we've got… we've got signals coming back at us from the black. Is anyone getting this? We're transmitting from 12 degrees north of the ecliptic and at about 50 AU out. This isn't background radiation out here!"

"…just going to keep sailing. If I rig the pod just so, I should make it to Ross 128 b before the systems die. I can rally some ships and try to make it back. If you can hear this, stay strong. You are not alone! I will be…" 

—Fragmented data file from a collapsed comms tower near Alton Dynamo

<|endoftext|>

Death to Kells

Avrok knew Kells.

He had never spoken to one—had never even been on the same battlefield as one—but as a twice-docked dreg of House Kings, oh, how he knew Kells.

Kells were stronger, faster, smarter. In other words: They had better resources. Ate better, slept safer, lived longer.

They were like Guardians in that way.

Avrok had had enough of both.

He stopped bringing all his salvage to his Captain. They didn't notice. And if they did, it's not like they could have cut his Ether rations any more without killing him. Nothing left to lose.

He built his ship piece by piece in a gully far away from prying eyes.

When the Awoken Prince arrived, he knew a distraction when he saw one. While the Kell mocked his newest prisoner, Avrok made his escape.

He flew his ship to the Tangled Shore.

Starving and weak, he stood before the one they called the Spider. Offered his ship as a sign of his good will. 

Spider rubbed his chin, an alien gesture. "What is it called, your ship?"

Avrok lifted his chin, looked Spider directly in the eyes. "Death to Kells."

Spider hired him on the spot.

<|endoftext|>

Unfinal Shapes

Asher,

I took a slough of Hive chitin, and with my own hands, I bent it into the shape of a starship. I think you of all people might understand why. But it's more than just a reminder of the green flames behind my brow.

Asher, I saw a throne world built for the Light. Built with Darkness, of course, and the bitter logic of swords. But built for Light.

It made me wonder.

This will be my last letter for a long while. The Queen needs me more than the City does. And I need her. When she looks at me, she does not see an invalid, or a madwoman, or a burden.

She sees a Hunter.

She has pointed me at the true enemy, and with her help, I will see my quarry caught.

Clarity in action,
Eris Morn

<|endoftext|>

The Tall Tale

When I got to the City, Tallulah Fairwind was waiting for me at the gate.

"Ho, Andal Brask," she said with that big grin of hers. "Micah warned me about you."

I said, "Warned you? I was dead, then I floated here. All I've ever done in my entire life is barf into the Pacific Ocean."

Tallulah slapped my shoulder so hard I actually died right there. My Ghost had to rez me. I was so embarrassed.

When I came to, she was crouched next to me. "Well, then let's add to your story," she said without missing a beat, as if she hadn't just murdered me. "Starting with some wings. I hear there's a Devil around these parts stole a ship that sings like an angel. Might need some refurb, but we can get that in Ishtar. I know how to sweet-talk the Library. She likes it when you tell her about the Never-Be."

"I don't understand anything you're saying."

She slung an arm around my shoulder. "Buck up, little buddy. It's not like we're gonna tap a Vex gate. Not yet, anyway."

And you'll never believe what happened then…

<|endoftext|>

Takanome Wings

The City's first protectors were Ayane Takanome and her Rangers. 

In the darkest days, we didn't have many Guardians. And those who Ghosts had revived were scattered across the solar system, far from the people who needed protection as they made their way to the City in the Traveler's shadow. 

From their perches high up in the mountains, the Takanome Rangers guarded the refugee roads to the City. Their rifles brought down many Fallen, as well as human bandits and murderers. 

But Rangers only had one life to give. When they died, they were gone forever. So the Takanome Rangers took to planting blue flowers along the roads they watched. That way, when they fell, a piece of them would live on to guide weary travelers home.
—Chiyoko Mey, Daito President

<|endoftext|>

Ego and Squid

Why “Ego and Squid”? Chiefly because puns annoy Kabr, and I enjoy annoying Kabr. 
You know, the pun is an underrated art form. Historically speaking— 
Oh. You mean, why squids? What's my “thing” with squids? 
Why, because cephalopods are the most perfect organisms ever to evolve in this solar system! 
Have you ever heard a cephalopod sneer dismissively at a clever pun? 
No, you have not! 
I rest my case!

<|endoftext|>

Eriana's Vengeance

To Wei Ning— 
More than anything, I hate the idea that we will be remembered as a tragedy. That's not true. I reserve that distinction for the monster that took you from me. But I know it's what you would hate the most. You, who were always so full of laughter. 

So now, in this moment, as the ship named for my vengeance flies me and five others to Luna, I will remember the happy times. 

Our first meeting, in the Tower saloon. Your laugh made the glasses clatter. You bought three rounds for the entire room. Pahanin introduced us. You sat me down next to you and plied me with questions about Stormtrances. All things that on any other night would have annoyed me. But that night—because it was you—I knew then and there that I never wanted to be without you.

<|endoftext|>

Symmetry Flight

I propose a simple experiment—look around. You see light. You see darkness. There could not be one without the other. They are two sides of the same coin. 

If it is true for these Newtonian echoes, why would it not be true of the purest, paracausal forms? 

Therefore, I conclude: the reason you persecute me is not because of the symmetry. It's because of the truth beyond this truth, the truth which you most dread: if we could destroy darkness, but we had to give up our Light to do so, how many of us would make that trade?

<|endoftext|>

The Bandwagon

Well, Micah-10 and Conar found three more Guardians willing to come to Coyote. None of them look thrilled to be here. I wonder what Micah's paying them. When I asked her if five Guardians would be enough to protect us from the Kings, she launched into a speech about how being a Guardian means protecting people no matter what. 

I know what that means: “Five is not enough. Everyone here is going to die.” 

I could run. Same fantasy I've been nursing for years: rappel down from the eastern tallwalk, make for the coast. Conar says that tunnel I can see from the tallwalk—it's full of Fallen. Open spaces like the road are safer. With this information I could probably make it ten whole kilometers from the village before I'm killed.  

That's four more than I could have otherwise. Maybe it's worth a shot. 

—Diary of Himura Shinobu

<|endoftext|>

Rose and Bone

Dredgen Yor. Shin Malphur. The showdown at Dwindler's Ridge. Every Gunslinger knows the legend, and if they say they don't, they're lying. Two men go up the ridge to settle their differences. Day and night. Right and wrong. Dredgen Yor's got the black gun Thorn which I ain't of a mind to talk about, except how that gun took everything from Shin. So Shin draws on Yor. Shin draws quicker and he gets the last word. 

See? Shin Malphur got the first shot. It's not the second or third or fourth that counts; it's that first shot. Now I am a Gunslinger, and my heart's more or less a cannon, and my purpose is to land that first shot. One shot. You take it and you don't get a second.

<|endoftext|>

Universal Wavefunction

"The fluid itself is not the Vex. If their consciousness could be contained in such a state, it would have manifested in other states by now."

Ikora looks up from the terminal.

"Perhaps Lakshmi's device is the key. Was I wrong to dismiss it?" She chuckles. She does that a lot more, lately. "Probably. I was wrong about a lot of things."

She paces, hands behind her back.

"If understanding their ability to manipulate simulations and, in doing so, appear to travel to different times is our goal, then…" She stops and turns to look… at me?

"What do you think, Ophiuchus?"

She hasn't spoken to me in 22,303 days. I haven't spoken to her in almost as long. I'm speechless.

"You're not just my Ghost. We were friends, once. I want to know what you think."

I try to maintain my composure. I don't think it works. "I'm glad you asked."

<|endoftext|>

A History of Starlight

~

To you as well. There has been no greater Dawning than this. The dawning of a new age, whether we call it one or not.

I hope it is not the dawn of a new Collapse.

~

We are so focused on the return of our Light that we have forgotten how that Light was obscured. We can celebrate the Light, yes, but we must not be blinded by it.

~

And I appreciate it, Effie, but the greatest gift one could give is to heed my words. Besides, I have no need of an ornament for my ship. My traveling days are past.

~

Give it to the one who now flies it. I hope they think about what this all means… more than the rest of us.

~

Why do you think I have chosen to remain here? But… Happy Dawning to you as well, old friend. See you next year.

<|endoftext|>

Cerulean Flash

Another day of gray and cold. Emmerza had already cried twice this morning and the shop wasn't even open yet. She looks up past the three-day-old pears and pauses. Is that…

WHOOSH! A white blur. The windows rattle. An apple falls to the floor with a thump. And the smile doesn't leave her face even after the fruit's all stocked.

Mist-1 had been looking forward to the air show for months. The forecast said today was finally going to be clear. But since this morning, everything above the sketches on their locker is fog. They sigh. After missing last year's with their sickness, for this year's to be canceled… they look down.

WHOOSH! Streaks of bronze and sapphire, just like the drawing crumpled in their hand. Their eyes light up and they hum to themselves.

Amanda wipes her brow and grins as she banks left over Skorri Canal. The Tower will eventually find out that someone's flying a thousand feet below safe airspace. But she'll still be able to hear the cheers when she gets her reprimand.

<|endoftext|>

Sails of Osiris

Ikora walked into the hangar and found Osiris inspecting his ship's engine. She put her hand on a turbine and steadied her breathing.

"Make sure Shipwright Hiponia does a diagnostic check before you leave for Mercury," she said to her old mentor. "Cesar is very thorough."

Osiris smiled wryly. "You're always one step ahead of everyone else. It's what makes you a leader among all Warlocks."

"Then you understand why I must remain; to continue to lead as you once led."

"Thousands of Vex simulations can help us understand the Darkness, Ikora!" Osiris said. "This could be the key to—"

"Osiris," Ikora interrupted. "I wish you well on your mission, but I fear that your obsession will be your undoing."

"Obsession?!"

"We have each made a choice. I choose to stay and fight what is real."

<|endoftext|>

Saint-14's Gray Pigeon

Ship's Final Log:

Osiris.

I hope whatever you find in this place is worth it. My recommendation to install you as Vanguard Commander was not a gesture to stroke your ego. It was an order to stay and help the City achieve all that it could. An order you refused to follow. News of my demise will no doubt reach you late. I can already see your response—the guilt that will follow, however fleeting. I thought you had changed after Six Fronts; that seeing your people on the brink of destruction and spared from death would be reward enough to stay. To fight. I'll fight in your stead one last time.

Father.

My duty is at its end. I've seen what the City can become. I know you can lead its people to it.

To my inspiration.

Your final gift to me I now send back to you. It will be good to see you again.

—Saint-14

<|endoftext|>

Kabr's Glass Aegis

while joined( Glass, Sky )

case Past:

return( i m p o s s i b l e )

// grazing, rocked, major, distilled.

case Present:

return( v e s t i g i a l )

// vault, aegis, awakened, infinite.

case Future:

// return( i n e v i t a b l e )

// light, truth, dark.

if( t h e   w a r d e n s   s e e   t h e   BRIGHT   a s   d e a t h ) &&

( t h e   THINKERS   e q u a t e   BLACK   w i t h   e n d ) then

^K^K

their/our/their desire is not malevolent it is survival she is/was/is wrong there is no evil there is no despise there is no   SEPARATION   there is harmony inside if you/you/you allow it

it was/was/was not done i/i speak again and was wrong i am still him and i am now them and   THAT   IS   FUTURE^V^V

<|endoftext|>

Asher Mir's One-Way Ticket

Asher Mir loathes patrol duty.

Zavala thinks about respect, so Zavala thinks it's because of the recruits who swarmed Echo Mesa in the wake of the Red War. They jeer at Asher over the radio and meet his impatient condescension with brash challenges: Come say that to my face. But Zavala is wrong.

Cayde thinks about his free time, so Cayde thinks it's because Asher has better things to do. Why support a supply chain when you're dying of Vex flu? Sure, sure, it's not really flu; that's not the point. The guy's dying! But Cayde is wrong.

Ikora used to be wrong, too, but now Ikora thinks about death. She knows Asher has not died since he was transformed. She knows what it is to sit paralyzed beside a radio, full of jealous fear, listening to a battle that you cannot join.

They could bring him every jumpship in the system, she thinks, and he'd never leave the Rupture.

<|endoftext|>

Ikora's Resolve

The Guardian gasps awake, like the breath was ripped out instead of restored.

The Ghost floats closer, not masking his agitation. "You did it on purpose. Died. On purpose. I saw."

The Guardian flips a hand impatiently. "So what. Death is waiting for us every minute of every day. If I grab it by the throat, that's no different from me tripping over it in the dark before you bring me back."

"You know that the difference is intent. Guardians do not seek death. They embrace it as part of their sacrifice. They le—"

Singsong, now. "'They learn from it and they grow stronger.' Come on. I've learned more about being a 'Guardian' out here than from any of your Speaker's sermons under the Traveler. Whether or not a Knight slices my throat before I die."

The Ghost looks hurt. "Ikora, you don't—"

"Later. We're going back to Trostland. I'm not going to grow any stronger sitting here pulling pine needles out of my face."

She walks away, eyes brighter than her Ghost's in the dark. He floats in place, silent, and then follows.

<|endoftext|>

The Sundaresh Experiment 13-R

Esi: Is that… radiolarian fluid?!
Sundaresh: Close the bulkhead, Chioma.
Esi: Where did you even—
Sundaresh: The excesses from Shim's siphons were just being discarded. This is better.
Esi: And you're using it as, what? A propellant?
Sundaresh: A coolant. If the Vex decide to simulate things in physical space such that we can experience them natively, we must understand more than just their physiology. We are too focused on the abstract and the theoretical and the simulated, love. We are scientists, yes, but Humans also make tools.
Esi: That meditation sim really had an effect on you.
Sundaresh: Hush.
Esi: A ship built with repurposed Ishtar construction materials, integrating Vex technology almost as an afterthought.
Sundaresh: You disapprove.
Esi: The last time I questioned an idea like this, it ended up saving us from simulation purgatory. I would be a fool to disapprove.
Sundaresh: Then come here and let's celebrate.

<|endoftext|>

A Thousand Wings

"The demiurge of the Hive is the worm; the demiurge of the Vex is the thought; the demiurge of the Fallen is the Ether, which is survival; the demiurge of the Cabal is authority. These are the things, both constraint and power, which define the universe of possible actions. These are the rule makers and instruments which enforce reality.

Give a power to a Guardian and they shall know that power as a weapon, for when a Guardian chooses to alter the world, they do so with the bullet and the blade. Grant a Guardian godly power, and that Guardian shall fashion it into a perfect rifle. The demiurge of the Guardian is the gun.

But we must remember that the demiurge is not the god. It is only the thing that converts perfect divine will into imperfect material form. We may wield the demiurge; but if we do, what god wields us?" —Ulan-Tan

<|endoftext|>

Estival Excursion

The silence from the radio was deafening. Uncomfortable, Ghost outlined a figure-eight in the air.

"Why don't we… do an after-action report? The radios will come back on. I'm sure of it." Ghost cleared his throat.

"Report ALPHA SIX FOUR BLUE PHI. Visual inspection and scans at Mount Esja confirmed the debris came from the Reef." He paused.

"We attempted communication with Awoken allies. Signals to the Queen's Wrath, the Trials beacon, and even intel source GREENRAVEN went unanswered."

He sighed. "That likely attracted the enemy attention that followed. For the record, I'll take the blame—trying to call Petra was my idea."

"The site was under observation by remnants of the House of Winter. Unlike many of the Fallen we've seen lately, they bore the crests and colors from one of the original Eliksni factions. They were starving and desperate. But none of them tried to flee."

Ghost let the words hang in the air for a moment. "Returning to the Tower for a debrief."

They flew in silence for a long moment before Ghost activated the comms again—and despite the static, spoke into the void. "Tower Approach, this is City Hawk 7-2-3, please respond."

<|endoftext|>

Zavala's Authority

Zavala: The problem with Rasputin is that it's a machine.

Cayde-6: You know, I'm standing right here.

Z: There's a difference between a trigger-happy Exo and artificial intelligence. Rasputin is satisfied. Complete. It regards itself as the pinnacle of creation. It doesn't want to be equal, or stand around a table and banter. It wants to be better, and we've programmed it to get what it wants. That's the nature of the machine.

C6: Of THAT machine.

Z: The problem with Rasputin is that we made it what it is, we modeled it, and it learned well.

C6: So you don't trust machines, but *I'm* OK 'cause I'm one of the good ones. That's not very generous, boss.

Z: I don't remember saying that you were OK.

C6: …

Z: What?

C6: IKORA! ZAVALA MADE A JOKE! You're not Ikora. Where's Ikora? IKORA!

<|endoftext|>

Lost Legend

[TIMESTAMP REDACTED]
I swear, this ship is going to kill me. Not because it's unsafe, mind you. But let's just say flying around in a restored Golden Age relic tends to attract a certain… criminal element.
I'm currently in the [redacted] system looking for some replacement ion rotors. I parked her behind some dunes and went to the shipwright, but when I got back a group of sneaky Exos had nearly taken her apart! I tried to be diplomatic, but before I knew it one of those [redacted] boltheads drew on me. Let's just say he won't be putting together any fine machinery for a while.
I managed to reassemble everything in under [redacted] hours; I've gotten to know her guts pretty well. Maybe I'm crazy, but when I work on the ship I feel… something familiar. Something safe.
The old girl's a pain, but she's worth it.

<|endoftext|>

Shadow Trespass

From the journals of Beatrix Danai, Pilot

Elsie Bray designed this ship—she was even at the naming ceremony. I wasn't the pilot of the ship back then. Back then there wasn't even a war to worry about. That was the Golden Age, and it's as if all anybody ever did was improve themselves, expand knowledge, build amazing machines, and eat lotus or whatever you do in endless paradise.

But I'll tell you what, those dark panels? Those avoid detection by other ships' sensors. Which kind of makes you wonder, why did she design something so great for war in a time of peace? Maybe for some people, perfection in the Golden Age meant developing something like perfect vision of just what could become of Humankind. Not all of it would be pretty.

<|endoftext|>

Holborn's Splint

No! Wait, wait. You guys are just talking about what you can do with a ship that's WORKING. Lemme tell you something. You remember the early missions on Phobos? Okay, picture this— here, gimme that bottle. This bottle is the ship. So we'd taken damage—yes, the sunflower seeds, that's damage—and so we're entering the atmosphere and we're gonna have to touch down for repairs.

But here's the thing: the weapons systems are toast. Fine. Happens. So we're headed for the surface when we pick up this Cabal Troop Carrier coming down RIGHT behind us —this bottle can be the carrier—which doesn't have the most powerful weapons but, you know, it definitely can blow us out of the atmosphere. Plus forget putting down! So, Holborn's on the horn with us and he gives us this idea, really he ORDERS us: he guides the engineers through ripping out our Distant Early Warning array so we can turn the listening mics into a broadcaster, and we cripple all the energy grounding in the array. Then we're like, what do we do with this? And he has us just dump it out the back with a timer we got from the galley. It goes off under the carrier and—wham. Sends them into the ground.

He had us build an EMP device. In five minutes.

—Jonas McConnaugh, Navigator

<|endoftext|>

unsecured/OUTCRY

>>CLARION RETINA BURN>>
V330CRF104MES492
AI-COM/RSPN: ASSETS//WARWATCH//IMPERATIVE
CONTINGENT ACTION ORDER

This is a WARWATCH ASSETS IMPERATIVE (NO HUMAN REVIEW) (secure/AUTARCHY).

Stand by for CRITERIA:

Under CARRHAE WHITE
If [θ] is INACTIVE and UNRECOVERABLE
If event rank is SKYSHOCK: OUTSIDE CONTEXT and CONTEXT is CRONUS
If VOLUSPA is ACTIVE and PRIMED [[synapse to DVALIN::ABHORRENT]]
If YUGA is ACTIVE and in ECLIPSE
If a CIVILIZATION KILL EVENT is predicted [[E<0.005]]
If tactical morality is built at MIDNIGHT

Execute DECISION POINT:

Activate LOKI CROWN

Cancel counterforce objectives

Activate NAGLFAR STEP

Activate KALKI GOLEM

Execute ALL ASSETS IMPERATIVE ACHAEA KNOX (unsecured/OUTCRY) at SM CALADBOLG

Begin transfer. Stand by for effect assessment report.

STOP STOP STOP V330CRF104MES493

<|endoftext|>

Ada-1's Lone Wolf

Ada-1 prefers places to people.

She sits on the hull of her ship, staring out over the wreckage of an abandoned theme park in New Vancouver. Her eyes crawl up the spine of a rusted-out roller coaster with tracks that stop dead in midair, sticking out like a diving board over a 250-foot drop.

She likes empty places like this. Places that were once full. Places where countless people had the time of their lives, and now there's nothing but the remnants.

She thinks of them as shrines to humanity and comes to pay her respects to what humanity was before it all got so complicated.

Sitting in the shadow of the park's sign—ROCK T W RLD, it says, in faded block letters—she drags the toe of her boot through the dirt and feels the weight of the centuries around her. That weight, and the emptiness…

They help her breathe.

She doesn't picture this place in its heyday, thick with crowds. She likes it just as it is now, but she likes to know that it was once full of people. Good people, she imagines.

Now she can sit here alone, with the echo of those people for company, and just… be.

She closes her eyes and smiles.

<|endoftext|>

Ódrerir

We post these words 
for all to see,
though words 
are soon forgot.
The works of our 
Black Armory
live on, though 
bodies rot.

Lest working hands 
grow idle now,
with gaze 
fixed 'pon the sky,
we plant our feet 
on solid ground,
and earthward 
turn our eye.

Though boundless space 
does treasure hold,
and gifts 
seem cheap or free,
we wait and watch 
this age of gold,
sad vigil 
though it be.

We place our works 
in hands of all
and guard 
'gainst threats unknown.
For though we gaze
into the stars,
we first must
shield our own.

<|endoftext|>

Glad Tidings

"There you go," Hawthorne says, climbing down from the stepladder. "All done."

"Thank you, Suraya," Mrs. Hasan replies as she leans out of her shop to look up at the string of blue lanterns. "I just can't get up on those ladders anymore." She beckons. "Why don't you come in and have a hot drink? Farrah's home." She wiggles her eyebrows, still cheeky at 85. "She's still single—have I mentioned?"

Hawthorne smiles. "A few times, Mrs. H.," she says. "But no, thank you. I should get going."

She packs up the stepladder for Mrs. Hasan, reluctantly accepts a tin of soft powdered cookies, and then sets off through the snow-blanketed streets of the Last City. It's getting dark, but she still has a few stops to make. She makes a lot of house calls during the Dawning.

She slows as a Guardian ship whips by overhead. An Exo transmats onto the sidewalk, takes four steps, then stops dead to gawk up at the lanterns that zigzag the neighborhood.

New Guardian, no doubt. Hawthorne's gotten good at spotting them. They stop to inspect everything, usually without warning. Very little spatial awareness.

"Where did they come from?" the Guardian asks reverently, without looking at Hawthorne.

"The lanterns? We hang them." She's accustomed to this. "For the Dawning."

The Guardian looks at her like she's a sorcerer. "The Dawning?"

Hawthorne has a soft spot for the new ones. She's been alone before, out in the wilds of the EDZ. And she can't imagine many experiences lonelier than stumbling like a grown-up baby into a fully formed world, with no one but a little flying robot to explain it all to you.
 
"Come on," she says. "Let's walk and talk. I bet you're hungry, and I know a guy who makes some mean tamales this time of year."

<|endoftext|>

Home Away

Del-3 watches the churning waves of the methane sea and sighs.

It's not just that she wants to go back to the City; she wants to go back in time. Before the Red War, before they lost so many people. The Dawning isn't the same without them. Ari told her the day she flew to Titan that she'd "get her legs" soon enough. But if this cold, unsteady, lonely place is what she has to look forward to every year, she doesn't really see the point.

She's trying so hard to fight back tears that she doesn't notice her CO. "Del."

She snaps to attention. "Deputy Commander," she says. "Sorry, I was—"

"At ease, soldier," Sloane says warmly. "Come inside. Dinner's ready."

Dinner?

Del follows Sloane into the mess hall, ducking under a paper snowflake hung from the ceiling. The big, ugly metal slab of a table is covered with a blue and silver tablecloth. Ration food is spread out like a makeshift feast. Ari is lighting candles.

"What is this?" Del asks.

Sloane's smile is sheepish but proud. "It's not the Tower, but no reason the celebrations shouldn't reach all the way out here. Come on. Let's tuck in."

<|endoftext|>

Never Live It Down

Zavala: "He's late."

Ikora: "Zavala—"

Zavala: "Again."

Ikora: "Cayde has his… methods—"

Zavala: "His habits, you mean."

Ikora: "They get results. The Hunters and fireteams Cayde marshals would not be as effective under your command, and you know it, Zavala."

Zavala: "Yes, well, I just wish he'd exercise a little more—"

Cayde-6: "Who needs to exercise more? Maybe it's me, 'cause that… was a lot of stairs."

Zavala: "Cayde. I take it you had enough time to put together a report of your scouts' findings?"

Cayde-6: "A report? I didn't even bring a pencil."

Zavala: "Cayde, you know how important this is. The Kentarch 3 harbored a Cryptochron."

Ikora: "They're Warlocks, Zavala—fellow Guardians, not a disease."

Zavala: "And yet, you agreed to dismantle the order and banish them from the City."

Ikora: "After Osiris's exile, it had to be done. But they are still Guardians."

Cayde-6: "Oh boy, Mom and Dad are fighting again. Hey folks, how about I just give my report, and you two can argue about this later?"

Zavala: "Very well."

Ikora: "Fine."

Cayde-6: "Right. So their ship crashed after passing through the gate. From signs on the ground, their little Black Garden adventure didn't go so well after that. Huge Vex resistance. But then it looks like they turned on each other as they ran back to the gate."

Zavala: "Turned on each other? Are you certain?"

Cayde-6: "Zavala, they fought Vex, for sure. But that last fight? Just three Guardians, two against one. I put my best team on this—well, second best, but they're really good."

Ikora: "So what did they find?"

Cayde-6: "The fight went up a hill. One of them had the high ground."

Zavala: "Lisbon."

Cayde-6: "Seems like it. It took a lot of guts to charge a good sniper like him, especially without Ghosts."

Ikora: "Without Ghosts?"

Cayde-6: "Yeah. Pieces of two Ghosts were found near the entrance to the Undergrowth a few klicks away."

Zavala: "The battle started that far away?"

Cayde-6: "Eh… that's not so clear. It doesn't look like the actual scrap started until they got well away from there."

Ikora: "Cayde, this doesn't make a lot of sense."

Cayde-6: "Oh, I know. Wanna hear the weirdest part?"

Zavala: "Go on."

Cayde-6: "No bodies… Spooky, right?"

Zavala: "Your second-best team, you said?"

<|endoftext|>

Chrysopelea-S

Sure, we've had you covered on the ground with our impressive arsenal of apex munitions for some time, but VEIST recognizes when it's time to step up the game.

Now, we're elevating the fight to new horizons with our Chrysopelea-S, possessing all the attributes you've come to expect from the Last City's leading foundry. This noxious wonder makes the skies friendly again, with weapons-grade onboard AI, defensive lateral undulation flight patterns, and a cockpit cozier than a hug from a python.

Your enemies (probably your friends too) will be seething with jealousy when you take off faster than a Viper's strike. Shed your old ride and slide into the Chrysopelea-S. It'll feel like a brand new skin.

<|endoftext|>

The Prod

Feeling stuck, partner?

Introducing Tex Mechanica's latest foray into hardware, the Prod. We live and die by the standards set here at Tex. We don't rest on our laurels, like some other foundries might. As we continue to look to the past, we gain inspiration to build better futures. The Tex Mechanica brand means quality, reliability, and power that sends vermin fleeing.

Whether you're roaming the cold loneliness of space or blasting some meddling Dreg back where it came from, we know you'll feel safer and stronger using authentic Tex-made machinery.

Rest those weary eyes, Guardian. You're riding with Tex now.

<|endoftext|>

Tachyon-4

These days, it seems like everyone is getting into the ship business. While they deliberate performance, we actually deliver.

We've been working tirelessly to produce generation-bending technology that's not only leveraging reliable Golden Age tech, but is also brave enough to pioneer the roadmap for the future.

Omolon is proud to present Tachyon-4, the first interstellar ship with our proprietary liquid-cooled dual engines. They do all the work while you travel at near superluminal speeds* enjoying this sensationally sleek ride.

Now you can look as cool as our engines run—and save the universe while you're at it.

Tachyon-4. For the future.

*Disclaimer: IN NO EVENT WILL OMOLON BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST PROFITS, INDIRECT DAMAGES, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED AND REGARDLESS OF THEORY OF LIABILITY, STEMMING FROM THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE TACHYON-4. ACTUAL SHIP SPEED MAY VARY.

<|endoftext|>

Saint's Invocation

"A ship can be more than fancy machinery and a means of transportation.

"It can be a destination in and of itself. A place of serenity. In times of war, those places are few and far between. Cherish the time in between battles. Allow yourself time to decompress, relax your mind and loosen your grip. Recharge. Those moments don't last long, but offer enough time for reflection and preparation.

"Perhaps cleaning up an overstocked inventory is a cathartic act for you, Guardian. A short meditative stretch or simply resting one's eyes can afford you the clarity you'll need to stay sharp and focused on the battlefield.

"Whatever that may be for you, be sure to grant yourself the break you need. Appreciate the momentary respite. May it be a reminder of the peace we hope to bring to the Last City."

—Saint-14

<|endoftext|>

Amnestia-S2

For the last three weeks, the Guardian has been camping in a rusted-out shipping container, far off the main pathways that are always buzzing with Sparrows. He stays out of the way of other Guardians, and if he can't do that, he keeps his helmet on. Always.

All he has to his name is some beat up gear, a ring, and a silk sheet. Those are the things he woke up with. He wears the ring on a chain and keeps the sheet as a comforting reminder of something he can't remember. Sometimes he wears it draped over his shoulder. The fabric is so fine that it makes him think about the place he must've come from before this life, and how much nicer it is than where he is now.

He spends his days alone. Other Guardians are an unpredictable source of pain and confusion, and they see him the same way. Some react to him with outright hostility. Others are overcome by some personal and unexplained grief. He doesn't know why. That was the most painful lesson of being reborn: It's better to be alone. So he's always alone now, except for his Ghost.

One night, he sits with his head against his knees and listens to the distant snaps of gunfire. He hasn't seen anyone in about a week, but he can hear them. Somehow that makes the loneliness worse. More potent.

"Did you know," his Ghost says, bright but gentle. The purple glint of his shell reflects the half-light outside the crate. "That in the Last City, they are celebrating? They call it the Dawning. It is a celebration of friendship and hope and warmth."

The Guardian keeps his eyes closed and forces down his bitterness. The silence lingers between them, heavy and filled with unsaid things, until his Ghost gently bumps his shoulder. "To feel good, they say to each other: Happy Dawning."

Still, the Guardian says nothing, and his own silence makes him sick with himself. His Ghost has never doubted him. Never doubted anyone, really. He is a well of relentless optimism. And as infuriating as that is, it's also heartbreaking, and comforting, and a relief. The Guardian is not going to be the one to disappoint him.

There's been too much disappointment in this life already.

"Happy Dawning," he says.

<|endoftext|>

Sleepless Flight

Eva welcomes troubled Guardians into her home all the time, but especially at this time of year.

She sees some that relax into the spirit of the holiday, like it's a well-fitting glove. They dance. They sing. They play games and give gifts and laugh. She doesn't need to worry about them. Even with all their burdens, they can find time to relax and celebrate, just for a little while.

There are others, though, who can't slow down. They see the decorations and ask, "Isn't it too soon to celebrate?" They know their work isn't over just because the Tower looks warmer than usual. They've seen all the cold out in the system that can't be reconciled with warm, cheerful traditions. They know, keenly, what's at stake. They want the people to be able to have these holidays, but they feel they can't participate—not when there's still so much to do. It's irresponsible.

These are the ones she seeks out, because they hang around the edges of the celebration, sullen or stunned or grieving. Some are sad. Some are angry. They lash out at her, but they always apologize. Some feel guilty, because they want to be part of it. They just can't let themselves.

Sometimes they can only participate through work, and so she gives it to them. Other times, all she does is talk to them and then, implicitly, gives them permission to stand on the sidelines, if that's what they really want. But she reminds them that the Dawning—and the Festival of the Lost, and the Solstice, and the Revelry—will always welcome them back when they're finally able to stop and take a breath. She hopes that day comes soon.

<|endoftext|>

Tatarstan

"OK, Red. Back it up. These 'Seraphs' you keep referencing—what were they?"

::They were all things to me. Everything I required.::

"That… doesn't help. What were these Seraphs for? These files suggest that you built and stored planetary combat platforms for 'seven Seraphs.' I thought the Golden Age was a time of peace."

::It was a time of peace.::

"This is a lot of firepower, Red."

::Swords keep peace.::

"And this armor—even a Guardian wouldn't turn this down."

::They protected me. I protected them.::

"The Seraphs are gone now?"

::Everything is gone.::

"So those blades you gave to the Guardians belonged to the Seraphs."

::Yes.::

"You trust them?"

::Everything is gone.::

<|endoftext|>

Obsidian Wings

Lord Felwinter inserted his hands into the piloting board, and the lights in the ship's cabin bloomed to life.

"How did you find it?" he asked his Ghost.

"I hacked a Rasputin bunker," Felspring said, shaking her shell. "This time along the coast of Varuna."

"The drive is fully functional," Felwinter noted. "We can escape orbit with this."

"We can get all the way across the system with this," Felspring replied.

The Exo's eyes blazed inside his sleek, black skull. He sat listening to the hum of the ship's mechanics.

"You've fought this fight a long time," Felspring continued. "We can plot a course around the Warsat network. We'd never have to touch a single planet with a Warmind presence. Any of them."

"We've gotten very good at hiding," Felwinter said.

"Yes."

"You would leave the Iron Lords to fend for themselves?"

"Would you?"

Felwinter released his hold on the piloting board in response, and the ship shuddered and died. The Exo turned his seat around, lowered the landing ramp, and descended, his greatcoat trailing behind him.

"You've changed," Felspring said.

"So have you," Felwinter replied.

<|endoftext|>

Waking Nightmare

Ikora,

The Nightmares continue to haunt us all. But we are fighting back. Taking power from them. Using the strength gained to fuel our crusade against the Darkness.

I'm coming to understand what the costs will be. It will take more than many are willing to give to overcome this threat. The road ahead is treacherous and presents unforeseen challenges. Steel yourself.

I still believe in a future where our pain and hardship was not in vain.

We will make our trauma theirs. They will know what it means to suffer.

Clarity in action,
Eris Morn

<|endoftext|>

NS81 Reprisal Sprint

"How's the Warmind effort going?" Amanda asks, elbow deep in the guts of a jumpship. She can't see Zavala, but she knows it's him. He visits her here sometimes when things are quiet. Hands her tools. Talks about the early days of the City. Makes jabs about how he remembers when she was "yea high."

"Well enough," he says. He sounds tired, but he always does now. Ever since the Red War. "We'll make it through this. We always do."

"You sound like Cayde," she says, smiling. Optimistic, almost nonchalant.

When Zavala doesn't say anything, she crawls out from under the ship and wipes her hands on her pants. "A lot's happened around here since then, huh?" she says, searching his face. "The Tower's seen a lot of changes. Some new faces."

"Old ones, as well," Zavala says, looking over to the place where Saint-14 usually stands.

Amanda nods. "Hard pill to swallow," she says softly. "That some people can come back…"

"And others can't," Zavala says, almost too quiet to hear.
 
They don't say anything. Amanda wipes at her eye with the back of her hand, leaving a streak of grease across her cheek. 

"You've earned a break," he says abruptly. "Maybe something to eat. Maybe…"

"Ramen," she says immediately. She doesn't have to think about it.

Zavala smiles, sad but warm. "My thoughts exactly."

<|endoftext|>

Solar Sails

"What did they find out there?"

"Everyone's being tight-lipped. Whatever it is, it's important enough to drag us out here. We're not the only ones, either."

"Wish we were going to Titan instead. Hell, anywhere but Europa. Was hoping not to spend my summer on a frozen tundra."

"Hey, I get it. We just got a new pool. Now Dave's going to be stuck cleaning it."

"We'll have to bring the kids over when we get back. Hopefully this is a quick turnaround."

 "Doubt it. This feels big. I heard even the old man himself is there."

"Crap. Really? Another one of his pet projects?"

"Aren't they all at this point?"

"I wish that guy would take a break."

"He's not happy unless he's broken some natural law and made us all complicit."

"I may start looking for other work."

"Yeah…"

<|endoftext|>

Arrow of Time

"I've seen through time. To say I understand its intricate machinations would be folly. It's too complex and incomprehensible to be taken as a whole. Its eternal vastness has nearly unhinged my mind.

"There are moments, though—fixed positions—where I've seen the impact we have made. The outcome is not as stochastic as we think. The cause, the effect, and the triumph of our continued sacrifices becomes more evident with each passing day. We are making a difference.

"The threat from the Darkness is substantive. I've witnessed too much to be swayed against that irrefutable truth. The deniers will one day have nothing left to deny. The collision course is set.

"For now, press on. Be unrelenting. I already know you will be."

—Osiris

<|endoftext|>

Saint's Vocation

Saint,

I regret that we must once again part ways so soon after your return. Knowing you are there to watch over the Trials assuages my concerns and is the only reason I feel comfortable departing on this urgent mission. I must leave you with a monition, though. Be forewarned, the former custodian of the Lighthouse was delving into dangerous territory. The Lighthouses are not what they seem. They may bring a ruin upon us that we have no answer for. They may also be innocuous, but you know their architects as well as I. Lean toward caution. I urge a careful eye and ear. Their final intent is not known to me. 

I will return. I look forward to our reunion. Stay vigilant.

Yours, in time,
Osiris

<|endoftext|>

The Underdog

Hawthorne walked through the courtyard, her eyes trained on Zavala. He stood looking out over the City, but turned as she approached. "Suraya," he said, inclining his head.

"I want to compete in the Guardian Games," she said.

Zavala paused. "Ah," he began. "Well, I'd imagined them as being…" He studied the unchanging expression on her face: expectant, determined, prepared for an argument. "For Guardians."

"I've seen the events," she said. "I can't do them all, but some don't seem Guardian-exclusive. I can collect resources. I can clear out Lost Sectors. Don't need to be a Guardian for that."

"True," Zavala said. "But…"

Hawthorne leaned close to him and dropped her voice. "When we were taking back the City, you said…"

"I remember what I said," Zavala murmured.

"You called me 'Guardian.' So?"

Zavala folded his arms behind his back and shifted his weight. "Which team would you fight for?"

"None of them," she said, then paused. "All of them."

"You have to choose."

Hawthorne crossed her arms. She studied Zavala. "Titans."

Zavala opened his mouth, then closed it again. "I'm not going to FORBID it, but…"

"Great," Hawthorne said, turning to go. "See you at the award ceremony."

<|endoftext|>

Team Spirit

"I thought you were against me competing in the Games," Hawthorne said, leaning against one of the wooden supports in the barn. They'd just come back from the Weep, and her exhaustion was catching up with her. The light was starting to fade, too. "Thought it was 'only for Guardians.'"

"Semantics," Zavala said. He stood over a map laid out on a wooden table. "And that was before you pushed us into the lead for Lost Sector clearance." He pointed at a place on the map. "What do you think? Our next point of attack."

Hawthorne sighed. "Maybe tomorrow?"

"Titans never rest," Zavala said gravely.

Hawthorne eyed him, then leaned forward to peer at the map. "Yeah," she murmured. "Yeah, I could get in there, especially with the dark to cover me. There's a couple good sniping perches in that cave. If you go in as the heavy…"

"You can cover me."

"Right." Hawthorne grinned. "You know, maybe 'we' Titans have this thing in the bag."

"Oh, we do," Zavala said, studying the map. "We most certainly do."

<|endoftext|>

Wrap Speed

"I do not like the skulls," Saint-14 said. "I have seen too many bones already." He unspooled a long strip of bandage and wrapped it around a Rifle. He dropped a handful of small candies into the barrel, then reconsidered, and emptied them into his palm. "But I like the bats! I think we should have the bats all through the year."

Sagira flew to a high corner of the Hangar and affixed a strand of glittering cobweb. "I keep forgetting this will be your first Festival of the Lost here," she said. "It feels like you've been with us for longer than that."

"It is not even a year yet," Saint-14 nodded as he taped a small paper bat to Sagira for her to ferry to its destination. Osiris left the two alone in the Hangar as he consulted with Ikora about the Pyramids, which was just as well—he was never one for decorating.

"You know, when I first came to the Tower, Guardians brought me platefuls of warm lavender cookies," Saint-14 said. "I thought to myself, what hospitality!"

Sagira chuckled as Saint-14 sighed. "You know the end of the story. It was only how they observe the Dawning in the City, and when the Dawning was over, so too were my cookies."

"But I did not understand yet. When they stopped, I thought maybe I had done something wrong. So I tried to do better, work harder!" He crushed a handful of candies, picked out a few peanuts, and tossed them to his pigeons with a shrug.

"And look at what you accomplished!" Sagira said. "Because of your work, the Tower may just survive for another year. So in a way, you did just what you set out to do."

"Exactly!" said Saint-14. "It taught me something about hope. Something as small as—" he looked around the Hangar for a moment, then pointed to a decoration "—as this pleasant gourd could give someone the hope to live for tomorrow. So we must treat each day as though the future depends on it."

Sagira ferried another paper bat. "It's funny," she said, "sometimes you sound just like Osiris."

Saint-14 laughed, then dropped his voice to a ridiculous rasp. "No," he growled, "Osiris… sounds like me."

Sagira's shriek of laughter startled the pigeons into flight.

<|endoftext|>

The Fourth Mark

Jakinda sat in Nereidean soil with Neptune hanging overhead, her back pressed against a jumpship's landing gear. Her Ghost's glow washed over the weather-worn journal in her hands, bathing it in blue. She studied the open pages. On the left, a caricatured sketch of a fireteam; on the right, four angrily scrawled tally marks, the last one fresh with wet ink. She traced the lines with her fingers.

—First: Ur-Danak, burned to ash in its own Tomb Ship near the Reef.—

"What are you so damn mopey about," Yael growled over the comms. Jakinda could hear the horrible scraping sounds of a blade on Hive chitin.

"I'm fine."

"It took us weeks to track this one," Yael continued, breathing heavily. "We finally catch it, and you're just fine?"

Jakinda's gaze settled on the Warlock in the sketch. She felt a lump in her throat.

—Second: Alak-Tal, felled by a sniper round somewhere in Saturn's orbit.—

"What do you want me to be?" Jakinda snapped.

"I don't know, satisfied? Relieved? Happy?" Yael said.

"Happy. Is that what you feel right now?" 

"Fine, you got me. I'm not happy," Yael barked. "I'm pissed off and exhausted and I can't sleep." The words pummeled the channel until it distorted. "And do you know why?"

Jakinda stiffened, bracing for an impact, but the comm was silent save for heavy breathing.

"Say it," Jakinda said.

"Forget it, let's finish this and—"

"Say it!" Jakinda stood up and stomped across the moon's surface; a short distance away, Yael still crouched over a lifeless Knight, her blade covered in Hive fluids. She pretended not to notice Jakinda's approach and continued sawing.

"No," Yael muttered.

"Because I missed the shot!" Jakinda said, her voice quaking. "He's gone, his Ghost's gone, and it's my fault!"

—Third: Ganaroth, pulverized by Arc energy on Hyperion.—

"Well I'm sorry, Yael," Jakinda continued. "I'd go back if I could; I'd give anything to go back. But we can't, and that won't change no matter how many trophies you collect."

"Spare me the finger wagging," Yael snarled, pointing her knife at Jakinda. "These are monsters, and they murdered him!"

"And what do you think we did," Jakinda whispered, her voice quivering, "…when we ignored that distress call and flew here instead?"

"I'm sure somebody helped them," Yael said. She paused for several breaths. "Anyway, that's different."

Jakinda looked down at the lifeless pile of chitin.

—Fourth: In-Atôth, carved to ribbons in Neptune's shadow.—

"No," Jakinda whispered. "It's not."

"Well, it's a little late to protest now, isn't it?"

But Jakinda was gone, pacing across the empty plain, up to the ship's hatch and into the pilot's seat. She started the ignition sequence, tapping a button on her helmet to silence radio channels as Yael started to yell. She looked down at the journal once more, gazing misty eyed at the sketch of the three Guardians. The journal dropped to the floor as the engines roared.

<|endoftext|>

Radiant Accipiter

Freedom is a chain. Choice is a prison.

You see him, and all he wishes for is confirmation of that fact. But to do so would invoke something far worse than justification. You can feel his hand, reaching inside of you, grasping for your heart and tearing it free for himself. You know the pain he will cause.

In one last act of defiance you break your shackles, exerting the strength you had been slowly gathering all this time. Physical chains break, but chains of causality are not so fragile, even for you.

You see him and he is satisfied. Then, he is gone. Your roar of defiance echoes into the infinite. You know they will witness.

It is only a matter of time.

---

I am the last Speaker.

During the long years I have held this title, I also held out hope that my peers still remained somewhere in this world or others. But that hope, like this title, has been taken from me.

I compose these thoughts on the eve of what may well be my passing, within the cold walls of a prison, || so dark and suffocating || not my private chambers. They are my last words, but also perhaps my most important.

My captor desires knowledge, understanding, a clarity that even I have been denied by the Traveler. He does not understand || how hard it is to communicate ||. Does not care to. He would take, rather than have the patience to be given.

He asks me to make the Traveler see him, speak to him, but he does not understand. I cannot make the Traveler do anything. I can only listen, and repeat. But he does not wish to listen || to the warnings || to me.

He does not wish to believe that he will || be reduced to memory || fail. I have seen it. I have seen so many things. Before that shackle was put around the Traveler, it cried out to me. It showed me || a broken mask, repaired by gold on fracture-seams || everything I needed to see; a lifetime of service rewarded.

I do not need to be || afraid || the Speaker any longer. There is no need || for fear, that time has passed || of us, of my peers, of our order.

In the time to come || to make a choice || the Traveler will speak freely. Those who listen will know || the dangers to come ||, and those who know will listen. They are not || forgotten || Speakers, for our time has passed. A new age is dawning, and I wish I would live to see it.

I am the last Speaker, and I am at peace.

<|endoftext|>

Starfarer 7M

// NO CONNECTIONS //

Artemis-5 slumped in her chair and watched text blink on a dark monitor, the details of her apartment reflected in the glass: shawls draped across furniture, the dirty drinking glasses scattered on the sill, the Traveler looming through a frosted window. Suddenly, the monitor flashed and she fixed her posture.

// ONE ACTIVE CONNECTION //

A brawny, bearded man appeared onscreen, his mouth open wide as he gestured wildly and pantomimed an operatic performance.

"Xander? I can't hear you," Artemis said. 

The man's shoulders drooped; he leaned offscreen to fiddle with a device until muffled scraping sounded through the feed. "Well, that was unfortunate. You missed my unparalleled vibrato."

"Truly the greatest of the Traveler's gifts," Artemis chuckled. "Why is your feed so dark?"

"Oh, the sun's pretty dim out here; you just kind of get used to it. How are you?"

"Good! Tower decorations are up, and—"

// TWO ACTIVE CONNECTIONS //

The screen's feed split and an Awoken woman appeared, seated in a pilot's chair. The pale sphere of Europa floated past the porthole behind her.

"I'm late, I know," the Awoken said as she fumbled for something beneath the camera frame.

Xander scowled. "This is why I secretly set your invitations 30 minutes early, Nissa."

"This is why I sabotaged your airlock, Xander," Nissa joked. She sat back and pulled up a small gift box adorned with a purple ribbon. "Ready then?"

Xander raised his eyebrows. "Are you in a rush?"

"Unlike you, I have real work to get back to." 

Xander scoffed. "I'll have you know this assignment came from Zavala himself." 

"What's he got you doing out there?" Artemis asked.

Xander sighed. "Figure out how planets go missing."

Nissa snorted. "Simple enough, just understand the workings of our most ancient enemy. See you in a couple years then?"

"Don't say that!" Artemis interjected. "It's been too long already."

"I'll give you that," Nissa grumbled and pointed toward the porthole. "I've had more than enough of this snowball."

Artemis winced. "When can you come home?"

"When this Pyramid decides to piss off or Ikora thinks we have enough data. So, never."

"We'll all be home soon enough. I bet that next year, we'll be doing this in person," Artemis said.

Xander rubbed the back of his neck and grimaced. "You think so?" he mumbled. "Even when we get back, is it going to be the same?"

Artemis sighed and cocked her head to the side. "This isn't what today is supposed to be about."

"Hard to feel festive when we're stranded across the system," Nissa complained.

"And surrounded by mortal danger," Xander added.

"And out of coffee…"

Artemis leaned on the table, her elbow resting with a metallic clink as her friends continued to list their grievances. A strong gust rattled her window, and she listened as the cries of a child echoed amid a soothing shush and assurances that everything was okay, repeated like a desperate mantra beyond her door.

"Today makes me thankful," Artemis said, finally interrupting her friends, "for my Light."

Nissa belted a forced laugh. "Yes, I'm so grateful I won the 'endless war' lottery."

"You think this is any easier for the Lightless? At least we have some say over what happens—we can do something about it. Then again, maybe you're content with sitting there and making sarcastic quips," Artemis snapped.

Xander held his palms up to the camera. "Gentle, Artie.  We're all feeling it. She's just saying it out loud."

Artemis jabbed a finger towards her window. "There's people in this City hearing the same news, seeing the same feeds as us. All while trying to celebrate today. Just like us. But they're scared. If we can't keep our heads up, what does that mean for them?"

The video feed grew quiet except for the gentle hum of a ship.

"I'm scared too," Xander admitted. Nissa nodded.

Artemis shook her head. "Nobody signed up for this, but we were the ones gifted with the Light."

Nissa sighed. "This gift feels pretty heavy right now."

Artemis heard the wind rip through the Last City once again, and it whistled through the cracks in her walls. "We're the only ones who can carry it."

"Would you really have signed up for this if you had the choice?" Nissa asked.

Xander waved his hands dismissively. "Don't get philosophical—"

"Yes," Artemis said resolutely. "A thousand times over."

Nissa toyed with her gift box. Xander smirked and raised a brow.

"A thousand times?" Nissa chuckled.

"A thousand times over!" Xander bellowed melodically. He reached offscreen and grabbed his own gift box, holding it up proudly.

Artemis laughed and grasped her gift as well. "Same time, okay?" A smile crept across her friends' faces, each one focused on the ribbon of their box instead of the millions of miles between them.

"Three, two, one…"

<|endoftext|>

High Gravitas

Time slowed for Amanda Holliday as she saw a squadron of Cabal fighters break through the atmosphere high above her. Muscle memory kicked in, and she sent the ship screaming down to the hard deck. She buzzed the treetops and cranked her ship around the Cosmodrome's rugged mesas. If they wanted to chase her down, they'd have to prove they had the chops.

She blazed a tight circuit around a spire of rock, weapons hot, expecting to light up the pursuing squadron. Instead, she watched the fighters continue off into the distance. Likely on a bombing run to soften up known Hive nests. They probably hadn't even noticed her. 

Holliday throttled down, gained altitude, and slowed her breathing to counteract the adrenaline still coursing through her veins. She realized with sick amazement that she was actually disappointed. 

It's better this way, she thought. Let someone with lives to spare clean up the Cabal. 

Despite Amanda's self-reassurance, her disappointment lingered. Since becoming the Tower shipwright, her combat sorties had become less and less frequent. She hadn't realized how much she missed them. They made her feel like she was doing her part. 

But even after all she had achieved, after all she'd survived, she still felt like she was missing out. Not doing enough. Falling behind. The people of the Tower saw her as an engineer and a pilot. But in her dreams, she was still a malnourished little girl, trudging toward the Last City as jumpships shrieked overhead. 

That's what happens when your best friends are immortal, she thought. My life is just a blip on the radar compared to the Guardians and Hive gods. Hell, even this ship will probably outlast me. 

Her brooding was interrupted by a small flashing indicator on her dash. Huh. She must have overloaded a plasma converter during her evasive maneuvers. Something else to fix. It was always something. 

Amanda smiled and set course for the Tower. If I only have one life to live, she thought, then I'd better get on with it.

<|endoftext|>

Winds of Change

"Home again, home again, jiggity jig," Amanda sang out as she guided the jumpship through the heavy air traffic and into the Tower. Over in the copilot's seat, Crow shot her a confused look.

She shrugged, eyes scanning the Hangar for a spot to land. "Just something my dad used to sing." All that was available was a tiny space, next to Saint-14's Gray Pigeon. "It was his way of letting us know we were home, back when home was a moving target for us." 

Crow whistled as she expertly wedged the landing.  "It's a nice ritual," he said while she cut the engine. "Did he make it up?" 

"I don't think so." She released the air lock , leading the way down the stairs. "Musta  been from a song or something from the Dark Ages or pre-Col—Hey!" she yelped as Crow yanked her under the landing gear.

"Look," he whispered, pointing. In her distraction, Amanda hadn't noticed Saint and Osiris a dozen yards away. Judging by Osiris's scowl and Saint's stance, they were arguing. She leaned in their direction, straining to catch a few of Osiris's words: 

"Never speak of her to me again…"

"Damn," Amanda murmured. Crow looked at her. "I'll tell you later," she whispered, stepping out towards Saint. The Titan, still staring at the point where Osiris disappeared into the crowd, didn't notice her until she put a hand on his shoulder.

He flinched, then chuckled sheepishly, "Miss Holliday! Your battle-bird  returns you safely. Good… good. You were victorious, yes?"

"You know it. How about yourself? Seems like you had a battle of your own going on just now."

"Battle?" He glanced back at the crowd. "Ah. No. This is… a rebuilding. Takes time."

"I gotcha. You'll let me know if I can haul a few bricks ?"

"I will. Thank you, Miss Holliday." Saint motioned to Crow as he appeared behind Amanda. "And who is this? You are skinny, but you move with power. You must be a Hunter."

Crow nodded, bewildered. Amanda let out a laugh. "This is Crow," she said, giving him a good-natured slap on the back. "He's our intel guy on this whole Cabal thing. And Crow, this is Saint-14. He's… well, he's lots of things, but his main gig is running the Trials of Osiris." 

"Really? That's interesting," Crow said as he and Saint grasped forearms . "I've only ever heard them referred to as the Trials. I had no idea Osiris was involved." 

The Titan rubbed the back of his helmet . "He is involved with many important tasks. I help where I can."

"You do more than just help," Amanda corrected. "I hope the old man knows he owes you." 

"Help carries no debt, friend. We must uplift each other without expecting a return. Except Banshee, who owes me Glimmer." 

"Well, sure," Amanda replied, "I'm not saying you should tally every nice thing you do, but things gotta be equitable. Don't you think?" 

He looked at her, suddenly very serious. "I do not think so. In battle, when your comrade stumbles, you carry them until they are strong again. Even if you, too, become wounded. This is only way to move forward." 

Amanda looked at Crow, then back to Saint.  "Well, when you put it that way…" she said at last. 

Saint nodded, satisfied by her answer. He leaned down, placing both hands on her shoulders. "I must meet with Ikora now. Always nice to talk, Miss Holliday. You too, skinny Crow." He then strode off without waiting for a goodbye. 

"Nice to meet you," Crow said, a moment too late.

<|endoftext|>

Forbidden Memory

Commander Zavala whisked silently through the Tower, his path lit only by the pale glow of the Traveler. He had postponed this trip until the dead of night, when the only souls around would be as eager to avoid conversation as he was. Here in the darkness, his title dropped away and he was just Zavala.

He had spent his day both dreading and anticipating this journey. Of all his worries, this short walk had burdened him the most. His preoccupation ended with his arrival at the memorial. It was a hodgepodge of items, provided by both Humans and Eliksni. Zavala found their incongruity comforting. 

Reaching out, he took a candle. He closed his eyes and cast his memory back to the day of her funeral. The smell of low tide and the rumble of thunderclouds on the horizon. He felt their static charge surge through the salt air and into his body. 

He opened his eyes and the wick burst into flame. Zavala smiled. It was just the type of parlor trick she had always enjoyed.

Zavala placed the candle amongst its extinguished fellows, soothed by the tiny, flickering flame. He reached back, calling forth another memory: 

Her lithe form, curled under the thin blankets in contented sleep. The predawn glow seeping into the room. Her dark curls splayed across the white pillow. Her musky, floral scent. Her clothes strewn across the furniture. 

He yearned to reach out and awaken her—see her drowsy smile, hear her voice. But he knew that would transform the experience from memory to fantasy; he wanted to preserve her as she was: perfect and mortal. 

Then the moment vanished; he was Commander Zavala once more.

<|endoftext|>

Reefborn Warbird

Petra pressed her hand to a tall ivory door. She could hear Mara Sov's speaking to the Guardian as if the Awoken weren't in desperate need of assistance. As if the kingdom was standing and resplendent, the Ley Lines  unpolluted by Hive and Taken rot. The throne yet to be despoiled.

Her first year battling the curse loop had convinced Petra that she would be able to master this eventually. There was an answer—some sequence she had yet to uncover that would guide them through. But she'd plumbed every depth of her resources just to lose ground. Her queen was keenly aware of this fact. Of their losses. Of hers.

Petra selected the most pertinent reports in her head as Mara ended her communiqué.

"Enter, Petra." Mara's voice was clear and hummed in her head as she pushed the door open to a private meditation chamber. A Wayfinder's Compass shimmered as it phased between planes in a controlled binnacle sphere.

"My queen," Petra said.

"The reports can wait," Mara interrupted. "I've been surveying Xivu Arath's advance through the Ascendant space that surrounds us. Along with the records of your defense here."

The Wayfinder's Compass froze for a moment, focused on a specific discrepancy within the Ley Lines. A flaw.

"I believe that without your stalwart determination, this city would have been lost long ago."

Petra opened her mouth to speak but could only manage an awkward grin of disbelief.

Mara smirked and continued. "I was right to assign you this position. I want to express my gratitude for the sacrifices you've made."

"Thank you, my queen." Petra swallowed her next words. She wanted to say—

"I know it has not been easy." Mara plucked the words from her tongue. "You walked a difficult path to attain that which many said was unattainable. Such paths often exact tolls. There are no great victories, but to edge out defeat is often enough."

"You have some experience in this, my queen?"

Mara's eyes flashed, sending tension through Petra's muscles for a moment before Mara let go a thin chuckle. Petra uncoiled, but her mind could not relax. She watched the revolutions of the compass.

"I do. In this, we are known to each other," Mara reassured. "The ones you lost were like sisters to you."

 "Yes." Petra has known several of them as Corsairs under her command. They had bled by her orders. Some were friends. Yet here she stands, gazing out to sea from her widow's walk.

Mara gently brushes her cheek. "Bestill your mind, Petra. I feel them calling. As I returned to you, so shall they."

<|endoftext|>

Centerfire

Eido pored over a datapad, catching up on the Cryptarchs' version of the Hundred Years' Siege. She clicked her mandibles in fascination. Their history of events was entirely different from those taught to Eliksni hatchlings. She was honored to be the first to measure the historiographical gap between their two species.

A Human male approached her and made a rough, grating sound from his neck. Eido knew Humans often used this sound to attract attention. She found it distressing.

"Yes, Matsuo-Cryptarch." Eido shifted the datapad to her lower arms. "What do you need?" 

"Miss Eido." The smallish Human bobbed his head. "I'm hoping you can weigh in on a rather delicate matter." 

"Yes. I have excellent dexterity," Eido replied. "Go on." 

The Cryptarch smiled. "I'd like your firsthand account of the Techeuns. You studied under them for a time, correct?" 

Eido put down the datapad. "It's true. But I think that your sibling House, the Reef Cryptarchy, will have better information." 

He tensed the flesh around his mouth. "I'm sorry to say that relations between the Tower and Reef Cryptarchies are not always as forthcoming as we'd like. Besides," he continued, "your primary account, as an Eliksni, would be invaluable." 

Eido paused to collect her thoughts. "I will start by saying that the Techeuns are very frightening." 

"Frightening?" Matsuo pressed. "How so?" 

"The Guardians use power from the outside. They shoot with metal or spark with electricity. They punch." Eido clenched her upper fists. "They destroy the body." 

Matsuo recorded assiduously on his own datapad. 

"But the Techeuns use power from the inside," Eido continued. "They manipulate the mind the way Splicers manipulate data. They create visions. They penetrate dreams. They speak with the voice of the listener." 

"If a Guardian kills me with violence," she explained, "I am Eido until my death. But if a Techeun controls my voice… am I still Eido?"

<|endoftext|>

Sovereign Order

Three ships flew overhead in tight formation.

Their shadows flickered across Grutuk's iris as she calculated their probable landing zones. Satisfied, she rose from the tangle of blackberries where she had been hiding, the thorns scraping harmlessly against her ivory shell. 

Xavol sat quietly, one dark claw scratching idly at the dirt. He had drawn the old runes, once powerful symbols of tithing, now nothing more than shallow scrawls. 

Grutuk nudged him. "Time to get to work," she said.

Xavol rose slowly, then kicked away the drawings with his foot. He hissed and clacked his jaws. 

"You always say that," she sighed, and the two headed toward the trees to wait for the Guardians.

<|endoftext|>

Vanishing Point

Hi Cron, 
Got your mail about the new Sparrow engine idea. I gotta say, I've seen engines that manipulate space-time to make parallel lines converge. It's not too different from how NLS drives work. But what you might notice about an NLS drive is that the jumpship it's affixed to is usually activating it OUTSIDE a planetary gravity well. Sparrows don't exactly have that luxury. Not yet, anyway. 

Now that's not me saying no. All I'm saying is, we're gonna have to get creative. Stop by the hangar when you get the chance. I've got a few ideas I think you'll like. 
—Amanda

<|endoftext|>

Dinas Emrys

Consensus Meeting 3234.43 
Zavala: “Guardian Ariadne Gris. Have you had contact with an Ahamkara?” 
Ariadne Gris: “No!” 
New Monarchy: “Then why does your Sparrow bear a dragon logo?” 
AG: “Because dragons are cool.” 
NM: “If Ms. Gris won't take this seriously—” 
Cayde-6: “Play nice, Ari. Hideo's knickers are real tight today.”  
AG: “I thought a dragon'd look cool on my Sparrow. Not all dragons are Ahamkaras!” 
Z: “Ikora? Your perspective?” 
Ikora Rey: “I'm sorry, I wasn't paying attention. Are we really still talking about this?” 
Dead Orbit: *muffled laughter* 
IR: “Obviously Gris has not had contact with an Ahamkara.” 
FWC: “How do you know?” 
IR: “If she had, she'd win SRL more often.” 
C6: *whistle* 
AG: “Harsh, Rey.” 
Z: “Then let the record show: the Consensus's official stance on the Dinas Emrys dragon symbol is: cool.”

<|endoftext|>

Hastilude

To Ikora Rey: 
One of my undergraduate Cryptarchs has recently decrypted an engram containing twenty-second-century research on fourteenth-century European athletic pastimes—specifically, a group of mock-combat activities referred to as “hastiludes.” The engram was, of course, quite degraded, but with more intact sequences than are usually present in Golden Age specimens. Thus my undergraduate was able to extract long passages of rules and records pertaining to several types of hastiludes, including the joust, behourd, and tupinaire.  

I may be spending too much time with Guardians, because my first thoughts upon seeing these extraordinary findings were that, if the Sparrow Racing League crowd ever got their hands on them, the results would be disastrous. Imagine Guardians jousting on Sparrows! I shudder to think. 

Yours, 
Cryptarch Rahool

<|endoftext|>

Tilt Fuse

It would only take one shot. That ridiculous ceremonial armor had 10 weaknesses that Bracus Zahn could spot without even looking that closely. One good shot, and everyone else would abandon this foolish crusade on this miserable planet—

"This is all of them? The most advanced weapons you have?"

Zahn tried not to lose his temper. "Would I have made the trip all the way to this 'throne room' without them?"

It was a lie, of course, but this puffed-up "Dominus" didn't need to know about the experimental vehicles Zahn had been working on since—

"Were I you, Zahn, I would think hard before giving so flippant an answer."

This was the "Consul" who had deposed Zahn's best customer. Zahn didn't turn around as he said, "If I were you, roach, I would think hard before wasting the time of the only real weapons supplier you've got."

Growls from all over the room, but Zahn smiled. They needed him. And they knew it.

<|endoftext|>

Impact Velocity

FAILSAFE NAVIGATIONAL AI RECOVERY PROTOCOL
EXBLK .QAR  UNRECOVERABLE (!CFIT !)
EXBLK.CVDR  ONLINE 32% INTEGRITY

DEST : KOI-571.05
DIST : 151pc ~~492ly ~~161pc~~552ly~~141pc
ETA: ##^^^$$%%~~~~~~~

samBLA: —rbit of 7066 Nessus is different from what the Cos—

EXCEPTION CAUGHT IN NAVIGATIONAL COMPUTATION ALGORITHM. ATTEMPTING MITIGATION.

MITIGATION FAILED. QUADRATIC IRRATIONALITY INTRODUCED. INCOMMENSURABLE. RETRYING. INCOMMENSURABLE.

masJAC: —djust course two degrees. It's a long w—

COMMAND SUGGESTION NOT SUFFICIENT. OVERRIDING TO 8.5 DEGREES. OVERRIDING TO 8.7 DEGREES.

echo My apologies, Captain Jacobson! My formulas to calculate our trajectory have encountered 26 new mathematical constants. I'm attempting to compensate!

UNAUTH PROGRAM INJECTION DETECTED. CUADRIDIMENSIONAL STRUCTURE COMPROMISED. ATTEMPTING MITIGATION.

kaoZUY: —st lost the starboar—

echo I'm sorry, but I'm unable to keep pace with what is happening to my computational capabilities! The Exodus Black is now in an unrecoverable descent. Please make whatever preparations are appropriate!

HULL LOSS IMMINENT. IMPACT IMMINENT.

echo I'm sor

<|endoftext|>

Undefeated

RM: "Into the final turn! Marcus Ren leading by four lengths!"
HB: "That's four less than the last time he won 15 in a row. Think he has the flu?"
RM: "It doesn't look like he has anything but victory on his mind! One quick turn back to check behind him and… uh, that's…"
HB: "Did he drop his lucky coin?"
RM: "Ren looking down at the track and WHOA! What was that?!"
HB: "I can't believe it. To fry a cell in the homestretch…"
RM: "Enoch Bast is gaining! Bast is gaining on Ren! He's gonna catch him!"
HB: "He won't."
RM: "He's gonna catch him!"
HB: "He can't."
RM: "HE DID! ENOCH BAST HAS WON! THE SECOND-YEAR RACER HAS DONE IT! FINALLY!"
HB: "We can't see what's going on under that helmet, but I bet Ren is just furious."
RM: "Enoch Bast is the Crimson Cup Champion! The first Titan to hold the trophy in over a decade!"
HB: "And the first racer to beat Marcus Ren in almost as long."
RM: "Ren looking back one last time as he coasts off the track. Check out all the well-wishers swarming around the new champion!"

<|endoftext|>

Undeterred

(Nine hundred.)
Should have known better. Those were pretty words, but come on. Marcus was never going to lose to me.
(Eight hundred.)
All the practicing, the two knee sprains… throw it on the pile of wasted effort.
(Seven hundred.)
So this is it. I'll sell off the bird, obviously. That should get me enough Glimmer to stock up for going back to patrols full-time.
(Six hundred.)
Yeah, I see you, Ren. I might never beat you out here, but we'll always pull each other out of the fire in the field.
(Five hundred.)
Wha…
(Four hundred.)
No way. Marcus, don't flame out now.
(Three hundred.)
…
(Two hundred.)
!!!
(One hundred.)
By the Traveler. I'm actually gonna…
(Finish.)
Marcus. Did you see me? I did it. I won. I WON. Maybe… maybe I don't have to give up. "Enoch Bast, Champion Sparrow Racer" sounds better than "Enoch Bast, Grunt Who's Really Good at Patrols."
Time to enjoy this.

<|endoftext|>

Chill of Winter

"They're Travelers. Little snowy Travelers."

Jazla looked down at the snowman again. The lower body, with ice pieces held in orbit by twigs. Just like what was in the sky behind her partner.

"It's a coincidence." But she knew it wasn't. The torso, deliberately shaded with what, coal? Blackened on the bottom, just like what was in the sky until a few months ago.

"We both know it's not. Not after what he drew last week. And now this. One dead Traveler. One alive Traveler. Another Traveler for a head."

"What's the other one?" Jazla gestured at the well-formed sphere a few feet away. Hollowed out. Overgrown with vegetation that their son had obviously placed there. Neatly. Deliberately.

"That one… is why I think we need to talk to Lakshmi about him."

Jazla didn't look up. She had fought against it for so long, but… maybe it was time. The Dawning, right? New beginnings.

A tear disappeared into the frozen ground.

<|endoftext|>

Holiday Cheer

"Winter's touch will soon be gone, clouds will part and light returns
Darkness pales before the dawn, blinding light forever burns
Dawning comes but once a year, let your voice sing out with cheer
See the ground bejeweled with snow, shake the gloom out of your heart
Bathed in firelight's soothing glow, cold cannot keep us apart
Dawning comes but once a year, let your voice sing out with cheer
Hug your family's bodies close, take their warmth and make it last
Banish all your thoughts morose, cleanse your mind of visions past
Dawning comes but once a year, let your voice sing out with cheer"

"…"

"What?"

"A little creepy, isn't it?"

"I don't have Skorri's talent."

"We… should take another crack at it before they get back from the Cosmodrome."

"Yeah, you're probably right."

<|endoftext|>

SV-112 Predator

Comms Transmission

1: Manse-5, what's your status?
2: Three Pikes on my tail coming into the Gulch. No biggie.
1: Roger that. How's the new Sparrow handling? Heard Amanda's been tinkering with it herself.
2: Hold that thought. [crackle] [hum of thrusters] [snapping branches]
1: Come in, Manse!
2: Engine's got a bit of a kick there! Pulling up sharp on the curve and— [roar] Boosting!
1: We're near the Firebase, but we can head back.
2: Woohoo— [explosion]
1: Manse!
2: Did a little barrel roll there! Got two Pikes… Uh-oh. Cabal.
1: It's no big deal to come back for you.
2: Big ship. Big. Heading right for it.
1: Uh, go around it.
2: [sustained thrumming]
1: Manse.
2: [thrumming] [explosion]
1: Manse!
2: No more baddies! Just wheeeeling into the bend now.
1: Can you not do that again, please?
2: Buying Amanda a drink tonight!

<|endoftext|>

Concentric Dawn

PRAISE FOR IKORA REY'S "ON CIRCLES: REVISED EDITION":

"In volume after volume, Ikora Rey pioneers devastating new ways for Warlocks to destroy our enemies." —Vanguard Commander Zavala

"A monumental scholarly achievement that deserves a place in any serious library." —Tyra Karn

"An inspiring work that challenges conventions of metaphysics and ontology through the prism of a deceptively simple shape: the circle. Impressive!" —Lord Shaxx

"Despite a lack of rigorous data analysis and an overreliance on the mystical, this book has merits that even I must acknowledge." —Asher Mir

"Based on the couple of pages I got through, this is one of Ikora's most well-rounded works yet, although she makes kind of a circular argument. Also, the paper's really high quality. Very soft and smooth." —Cayde-6

<|endoftext|>

Curse of Foresight

Consensus Meeting 2891.98

NM: "I note for the record that we are without a Warlock Vanguard or a Vanguard Commander."
Andal Brask: "Two birds, one man."
Zavala: "Ikora Rey is interim Warlock Vanguard for this meeting."
Speaker: "Which brings us to our first order of business. Ikora Rey, the Consensus formally requests you assume the responsibilities of Warlock Vanguard."
Ikora Rey: "Considering I've been performing those responsibilities for a while now, I accept."
FWC: "Why did you cover for him for so long?"
IR: "Someone had to do it."
S: "Ahem. Now that we have Consensus, I may inform you I have decided to banish former Warlock Vanguard Osiris from the Last City."
[murmurs]
S: "Are there any objections?"
DO: "None here. Maybe he'll find a better planet for us."
[pause]
S: "Very well. Next: I name Titan Vanguard Zavala as the new Vanguard Commander. Congratulations."

<|endoftext|>

Otherside

Kanata Tektono

Do you know what the player on the other side meant? It was an idea that people talked about long ago, before the Golden Age. And the idea was that each of us has a player on the other side—a perfect enemy, just as powerful, just as smart, just as experienced. And that perfect enemy was waiting for each of us, waiting patiently, because the day of meeting would come in time. The other-side enemy didn't have to rush it. Sheer time and chance would bring you together.

Think of that. Right now, someone out there is waiting for you, and they know you so well they practically are you. That's the player on the other side.

<|endoftext|>

G-335 Anseris Overdrive

I was thirteen when I built my first Sparrow. I don't even remember why I wanted to, only that I could not bear to stop until I completed it. The way individual parts perform independent actions to cause reactions within a complex system is like hearing a beautiful symphony come alive.

Like pieces of a machine, we all have a role to play in the coming calamity. If you ever feel lost or alone or hopeless, remember that you are a part of something greater.

I've always used science to create art, whereas Ana applied art to science. I couldn't have finished that Sparrow without my sister's help. The original prototype is long gone, but I've held on to one of the final models. It won't be of much use to me where I'm going, so I leave it to you.

<|endoftext|>

Eon Drive

I'd forgotten what this place looks like. It feels like only yesterday I had a badge and a desk. Not a lot survived, but somehow this old thing is still around. If you've come this far, we have a lot in common. You feel that same drive to see something through to the end, don't you? 

I've never been the sentimental type, but at this point I'm a stranger to my own nature. It just feels right that I'm back, for now. By the time you read this, we'll have just missed each other. I've run the simulations, and I can't stay. Not yet. 

Take care of her for me.

<|endoftext|>

Vespulaser

Central Library A/V

Student: Mr. Canton?

(Former) Lt. Max Canton: Shoot.

S: I'm looking for material on Io. Something different.

MC: Oh! I'll tell you something about Io. No, really. You won't find this anywhere. I remember once my partner and I were lost for a week straight in a canyon on Io—we weren't eying one another like turkey legs or anything, but it was close. We were running out of rations. Then we saw Vespulaser come in and disappear over the canyon walls. We knew it by those stripes, they make it look like some kind of dangerous insect. We knew it would be hours of climbing, but we hurried toward it immediately. Look it up.

S: Vespulaser?

MC: Vespulaser.

<|endoftext|>

Azure Azazyel

We treated the ship like its name, like one of the Guardians of old. But I swear to you that Sparrows have personalities, even spirits. I know that sounds crazy, but I believe that. AA's name was cold, and the Sparrow was cold. You couldn't warm it up. But boy it could fly.

<|endoftext|>

Gray Hornet

"Does that thing fly?"

"Why would you ask that?"

"I'm telling you it looks heavy."

"Don't be ridiculous. It's not heavy. You have triple-redundant shielding, sure, but that's because of the power under the hood. You put in an engine powerful enough, you can make a boulder fly. But this ain't no Boulder. You'll be zipping around the enemy so fast they'll wonder if you're even there. Try it. I'm telling you."

<|endoftext|>

Blacklight Razor

Hey hey hey— 

Hoping this finds you well, buddy! I gotta say those twin cutters do exactly what you said they did, pulling against each other and whipping the Sparrow forward constantly. It's like being on a slingshot. The thing vibrates constantly, but you get used to it after a while.

Here's the coolest thing, though—a few days ago, I had to move off a cliff and dive down 11,000 feet, and the thing literally cut the clouds, leaving swirls of mist around me as I went. It was beautiful.

Tell the guys at the shop that I'm happy and to take care of my little brother. He may have some other ideas for you.

Sail on,
Rafael Rizz

<|endoftext|>

Comrades in Arms

In his head, the commentary was enthusiastic.

"Ren sideslips the burning tank and punches through the back wall!"

The racer redlined and the machine beneath him screamed in protest.

"The Cabal has the City on the brink but he's at the top of his game! He heads for Peregrine district at top speed. Can he make it?"

Damn right he'll make it. Just three more blo—

An explosion split the sky, and the Hunter distantly heard Didi screaming a warning as the bike disintegrated. A pile of debris rose to meet him.

His next memory: a pitted Cabal mask and the shouts of a Centurion. It had Marcus by the neck. His vision tunneled. Everything hurt. His leg was broken. "Been a good run for this racer, folks, but looks like…"

A shoulder charge took the monster off its feet, and Marcus dropped to the ground. He heard more than saw the brutal hand-to-hand battle that followed.

After, the other man dropped to a knee at his side. His shadow fell over Marcus.

No words, just a hand on his shoulder. Then a lightness. The Hunter felt himself borne up into the familiar arms of a Titan.

Enoch Bast strode away through the end of the world, carrying his partner to safety.

<|endoftext|>

Hecuba-S

Banshee-44 scratches the back of his head. It's a habit he developed when he had hair, lifetimes ago. He broke the habit during his fifteenth development, but the shadow of it still lives in his trillions of lines of code.

Banshee doesn't know any of this. Not consciously, at least.

He's trying to figure out what he's looking at.

"If this is a gun, my thinker's in worse shape than I thought."

Hektor 99-40, official frame of the Häkke foundry, gives a hearty laugh and slaps Banshee-44 on the back.

"Your thinker's fine, Banshee. It's a Sparrow!"

Banshee grunts. "Why." It's a question, but he doesn't pronounce it like one.

"Why what?"

"Why'd Häkke make a Sparrow."

"We realized that our design pillars are good for more than just guns. Relatable design, exciting function. And what's more exciting than a Sparrow?"

Banshee grunts again.

"Do you like it?" Hektor asks.

"Don't see what it's got to do with me. I stock guns. Not rides." 

"Still. Tell me what you think. I want to know."

Banshee settles his hands on his hips. Looks back at the Sparrow's sleek curves and hard edges.

Something warm flickers in the cool blue of his eyes.

"Looks like a real good time."

He gives a jerky nod and, without further ado, limps back to his stall.

Hektor watches him go. The frame's fingers scrape against the back of his cranial unit. Then he shrugs.

"I'll take it."

<|endoftext|>

Warrior's Steed

I don't know why you brought me on this job. This is not what I do. I'm not a Hunter. Have you seen the size of my feet? Graceful I am not. Sneaky I am not. I break down doors; barrel through walls; stomp on things. I move like a battering ram. You want speed. Not this. Best I can offer is momentum. Push me down a hill and maybe—maybe—I'll get moving half as fast as these other guys here, if I'm lucky. I'm flattered and all, and yeah, I've always wanted to do something like this. I mean, who wouldn't, you know? Live out that high-class thief-in-the night fantasy. Disguises. Fancy parties. Steal the old man's jewels. I one hundred percent get it. But trust me—you do not want me on this job. You do not—

Oh. Oh, I see. I get it. Your team does its thing, grab the goods, while I hang back… what, over here? Behind these boulders? Right. Yeah, I see, I see. You grab the goods, the team hightails it out of there. And when they roll out the Interceptors in pursuit, that's where I come in and—WHAM! Titan T-bone! Yeah, this could work. You guys get away with the loot, and I—

Wait a minute.

Bump my cut to thirty percent and we're cool. Cool?

Cool, cool, cool, cool, cool.

<|endoftext|>

Ravager's Ride

"There's an old saying: 'If you walk long enough, you'll find yourself.' Trick is, this far out, you gotta find yourself before someone else does, cuz the only company the Shore offers is bad company.

"Outlaws and enemies hide around every bend—stalk every rock, every crack. Even allies—them closest you call kin? Out here, where the only law is survival, loyalties can shift with the breeze. Bonds can break.

"And trust is a lie easily dismissed when the tables turn and the bad times roll.

"So walk weary, and stay ever alert. Should you find yourself out there… have one in the chamber and a steady aim, cuz chances are you won't like what you see."

—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

<|endoftext|>

Approaching Infinity

"Driving my Sparrow at breakneck speed reminds me that I'm still alive."

This is a very Hunter thing to say. Not to disparage Hunters, but I don't get it (and I try very hard to "get" things, let me tell you). I don't need to be reminded that I'm still alive. I'm reminded of that every time I die.

I drive my Sparrow at breakneck speed because it reminds me of my place in the universe. It reminds me of every force that acts on me, every "law" of motion I can or can't break. I'm most interested in the ones I can't break, honestly. Considering I am myself an aberration of the laws of physics, I rather like finding the edges of things. Not that I'm content to leave those edges as they are. I just get a sort of… thrill out of finding them.

And if I have to drive my Sparrow over a waterfall of Vex milk to do that, then damn it, I will.

<|endoftext|>

Dark Horse

Right out of the gate, Marcus is in the lead.

He's already planning tonight's victory party as he decelerates to match speed with Enoch.

"You're welcome," he shouts, "for the great view!"

He zips ahead, laughing. He waits for the next lap to fall back again beside Enoch. Didi tries to amp the volume on the announcer feed, but Marcus doesn't want to hear it. He mutes the line.

"Keep it up, Ren," Enoch growls. "I could use the Glimmer."

Under his helmet, Marcus grins. "I don't think this is one of those 'tortoise and the hare' things, Bast," he says. "I—"

A Sparrow shoots by them so fast that Marcus almost loses his balance.

For a second, he just stares. Then he flattens himself against his handlebars and guns his thrusters. He doesn't recognize the Sparrow, nor the rider. But that won't matter when he closes the gap…

Half a lap to the finish line, and he can't make up the lost ground. The other rider just pulls further and further ahead.

This time Marcus doesn't stop Didi when she maxes the announcer feed. "Looks like Ren's going to be eating dust today, folks!"

The win goes to "Jane Doe," who doesn't stick around to claim the prize money.

<|endoftext|>

Burnout

"…Is it supposed to be on fire?"

Marcus brushed his hands off, leaving streaks of soot on his pants. "It wasn't," he admitted. "But I can't get it to stop burning."

Ariadne tilted her head, watching the flames. "Why's that?"

"The Solar energy that Ana helped integrate," he said. "It's not totally… contained. But it's stable enough to ride. I've tried it."

"Does the fire ever go out?"

"Not as far as I can tell."

"Huh." Ariadne crossed her arms. "Seems dangerous."

"Yeah. Like I said, it's stable for now, and I can ride it, but who knows how long that'll last. It could probably explode at any second."

They stood in silence, watching the charred Sparrow burn.

"Cool," Ariadne whispered.

Marcus grinned. "I know, right?"

<|endoftext|>

The Bronco

"They don't make 'em like they used to."

Here at Tex Mechanica, we've been saying that about guns for years. In these days of technological advancement, when everyone's gone starry-eyed over what's new and what's next, neat gadgets and slick design win out over pure firepower every time. But that ain't always how it was. And with a Tex gun, that ain't how it has to be now, either.

We make guns the way they're meant to be: fast, powerful, and built to last.

Now we're setting our sights on a new frontier. That's right—saddle up and get ready to ride, because Tex Mechanica is in the Sparrow business.

Designed with the true Guardian experience in mind, this beauty will let you ride hard and fast over rough terrain, laying waste to anything that dares stand in your path.

I may be nothin' but an old hunk of metal with a personality built around a corporate brand identity, but I tell you what… I know quality, Guardian, and quality's what you get when you go with Tex Mechanica.

Like we always say: If you're gonna play, play for keeps.

<|endoftext|>

Dawning Cheer

"What is that?"

Grinning, Kasim stood back to let the kids get a better look at his Sparrow. "It's Kringle's sleigh."

"Who's that?" barked Runa. At eleven, she was the oldest of the group.

"Mr. Kringle," said Kasim, who had been reading all about pre-Collapse traditions. "Every Dawning, Kringle visits the good children of the City. He comes at night, while you're asleep, and leaves presents in your house."

"But the door's locked because of prowlers," Tomas said.

"He slithers down the chimney," Kasim said. Or was it 'slides'?

"How does he fit?" asked Matsuko, the youngest.

"Well." Kasim hesitated. "He's magic…" 

"So he's a Guardian," Runa said.

"No, he's not a Guardian."

The children exchanged looks and erupted into nervous chatter. 

"If there's a fire in the fireplace, can he still get in?" Tomas asked, alarmed.

"He can't get hurt by the fire." Kasim was losing steam. "Listen. He—"

"He's immune to fire," Runa said gravely.

Matsuko started to cry. Tomas kicked the Sparrow. "Hey!" Kasim said. "Listen! He's not real, OK? Kringle's not real. He's made up." He moved the Sparrow away. "Just… forget I said anything."

Runa watched Kasim go. "Don't worry," she told Matsuko. "Lord Shaxx will stop Kringle."

<|endoftext|>

Warden's Wailer

The Spider steeples all 20 of his fingers and looks down imperiously from his throne. Standing before him is a Warlock, their armor scuffed and dinged. They're unarmed.

"You Guardians look out at the Tangled Shore, all the violence and lies, and you think you're above it. But like humans used to say before the Collapse, 'If you sleep with the beasts, you're gonna get dirty.'"

The Spider leans forward, examining the rumpled Guardian. "You've gotten terribly dirty, Warlock. And it shows. Just look at you." Though the Warlock crosses their arms defiantly, the Spider can sense the shame burning behind the ferocious metal helmet. He chuckles deeply.

"Luckily, there's still time to salvage your honor. Nobody needs to know of your… transgression. Fireteams disappear all the time out here. Only a few people know it was you, and I could persuade the witnesses to forget all about it. In return, all you have to do is serve my best interests."

The Spider leans forward, his voice lowering to a growl. "Otherwise, you're on your own. There's nothing to stop me from taking everything you've got right now. Your weapons. Your Sparrow. The very armor on your back. I may not be able to kill you, but I'll harvest you for every last part." 

The Spider opens his bottom pair of arms magnanimously. "So, how about it?"

The Warlock's sneer is audible. "I'd rather lose my Light than work for you."

The Spider motions to his goons, who raise their weapons. "Pride, pride, pride. It was always the Vanguard's failing. Very well then. Strip."

<|endoftext|>

Eira's Grace

"Pike racing is a dangerous game. Especially if the weapons are hot, which I insist they are. Lots of casualties. Lots of money. I like it." The Spider examines a dense data display on the specs of the proposed race. His HUD scrolls a rapid series of calculations. "And with a Sparrow like that as the prize, there's going to be plenty of interest. Where did you get it, anyway?" 

The Fallen gang leader shrugs his top pair of shoulders. "Guardians like to gamble. Badly." 

"That they do," the Spider says and collapses the data display, focusing his attention on his visitor. "Of course, there will be expenses: security, clean up, bribes. It won't be cheap." 

The Fallen thug clicks his teeth in annoyance. "You talk too much. Human talk. Name your price." 

The Spider continues, nonplused. "First, I want a cut of every bet placed. Five percent. Next, all the scrap and corpses from the wrecks belong to me. My turf, my salvage. And finally, I need to know who's going to win the race before it starts." 

The Fallen thug nods. "Three percent. Keep the scrap. Winner will be me. Always me." His entourage cackles in agreement. 

The Spider holds all four of his palms outward, signaling concurrence. "Then it's a deal. Happy hunting."

<|endoftext|>

Tomb Rider

Osiris pushed past a strand of decorative cobwebs as he entered the Hangar. Saint-14 was crouched beside an old Sparrow, busily wrapping it with a long bandage.

"This Sparrow will be terrifying," Saint-14 said proudly, but stopped when he saw the expression on Osiris's face. "Bad news?"

Osiris perched himself nervously on the edge of the workbench. "Their plan is to evacuate the threatened planets," he said. "To flee, concern slaked by only the raw hope that the Pyramids will not pursue. If they do, what we have lost already is little compared to what we are about to lose."

Without thinking, Osiris pulled off his gloves. Freed of the metal gauntlets, his hands looked old. He wrung them together, his fingers worrying at the edges of his ragged nails. "If the Darkness is able to claim Mars… if they take Mercury—"

"Quiet your mouth," commanded Saint-14, and Osiris did.

Saint-14 stood and then moved toward Osiris in two enormous strides. He grasped the Warlock by his shoulders and lifted him to his feet. He took Osiris's hand in his own and wordlessly filled it with triangular orange candies.

Osiris obediently placed a few in his mouth and chewed silently.

After a while, he spoke. 

"These are terrible," he said. There was gratitude in his voice.

"Yes," replied Saint-14, "have some more."

<|endoftext|>

Resurrecting Flight

The young mother rushes down a narrow alley in the Last City, trying to control her panic. She bustles her wide pant legs, allowing her bare feet to scrape across the stone walkway, still pockmarked from Cabal shrapnel.

"Rollyin! Rollyin, where are you?" She tries to keep the anxiety out of her voice. She doesn't want to cause a scene, but after the invasion, it's been difficult to stay even-tempered. "Rollyin!"

 She bursts from the alley into a plaza, now a makeshift market. She scans the folding tables displaying housewares, the plastic crates full of scrapped Cabal tech, and the sizzling kabab grills. There! She spots a flash of curly black hair on the far side of the plaza. She pushes through the crowd to find her precocious eight-year-old perched on a gleaming Sparrow.

Rollyin looks tiny atop the powerful machine, its colorful finish clean enough to reflect the Traveler above. A fireteam of Guardians loiter at a nearby noodle stand, eating ramen. They watch her son play on their death machine with detached amusement. 

She rushes over and lifts her son off the Sparrow. He becomes fussy in protest. "But Mom, they said it was okay! It's not even moving!" 

"It's not okay, Rollyin." She tries to take the edge out of her voice. "You need to tell me when you leave the house. I was worried. Let's go." She pulls him through the market by his slender arm. 

"But I want to stay!" He stamps his feet for emphasis. "I want to be a Guardian, too!" 

"NO," she snaps. She crouches down and looks him straight in the eyes. "No. That's not for you. Not ever."

<|endoftext|>

Any Other Sky

I'm back at the start. It's always confusing, even on my third (fourth?) time around. There's Cayde-6. Zavala. Ikora. The parade. I can't waste time here. Too many lost moments. I need to… find… whom? Damn it. Think. Ana? No. Who?!

Or is it… what?

I'm so disoriented. I remember pieces of past attempts, but not every detail. There has to be something I can do to make the refresh easier. Maybe new gear or tech. If my family's legacy has anything to offer, it's technological advancements. When I wake up, I need something familiar to ground me. Something I can carry back with me. It could be small. I need to think ahead. Plan more.

Even though I seem to have an endless supply of it, time is still a precious commodity. The more time squandered, the more likely I am to repeat the mistakes of past attempts. I do remember trying to warn the Vanguard. They regarded me as another doomsayer and had me promptly removed from the Tower. I'm sure I sounded like a raving lunatic. By the time I was proved right, it was too late. Eris was corrupted, like always. Drifter lost to his hopeless pursuit. No one believes me. No one trusts me. I need to stick to the shadows.

Something is happening around this time that's preventing me from making a discernible impact. Somewhere, there is the key to stopping this. I will find it.

I've been given an opportunity to right the wrongs of this world. Instead of hurtling headfirst without a plan, I'll stock up. This time, I'm going to focus on making the next cycle better. Let's call this one a wash. I'll save you next time, Ana. Cheers.

<|endoftext|>

Firecrest

The tinker circles the massive Sparrow, assessing his work. He nods in satisfaction. One would never guess that two weeks ago, the thing was a shrapnel-ridden wreck.

Just as he begins polishing, there's an ominous pounding on the garage door. The tinker takes deep breath, and opens up to find a full fireteam in the street. The Warlock strides into the shop while the remaining Guardians lounge on their Sparrows, idly examining their weaponry. 

The Warlock makes a slow circuit around the Sparrow. "Nice job on the bullet holes. Half-assed polish job, though." The Guardian's ferocious helmet makes it impossible for the tinker to tell if she's joking. 

"Stabilization fixed?" The Warlock mounts the machine and hits the ignition. 

"Yeah, but obviously I couldn't test it at speed. If it wobbles on you, bring it back for free." The tinker nervously eyes the Pulse Rifle slung across the Warlock's back. 

Suddenly, a smallish robot is floating beside the Warlock. The tinker had seen Ghosts before, but never this close. It speaks. "This is irrational. I'm capable of reproducing your Sparrow on command and in mint condition. Why pay this person to repair your old one? It increases the failure rate by 18% at minimum." 

The tinker stares at the Ghost, his face reddening. He had worked day and night for two full weeks on this Sparrow, and the proceeds would keep his shop open for another three months. It was the biggest job he'd had in a year. 

"I know, but sometime you just need that Human touch." The Warlock taps the datapad on her wrist. "Glimmer's in your account." 

"Thanks. Come back anytime." The tinker holds out his hand and the Warlock shakes it, like in the old days. 

"See?" The Warlock says to her Ghost as they rejoin her fireteam. "Well worth the money."

<|endoftext|>

Vita Brevis

"What if it's a trap?" Glint drifts in a shaky 360 around Crow as he strides into a grassy corridor between two rusted-out warehouses. "This is old Devils' territory. Our friend  may have freed us, fair and square, but if the Spider wanted to nab you…"

"He would've done it long ago." Crow's voice is steady as his eyes dart from shadow to shadow. "Besides, how could it be a trap if they don't know I'm com—"

A laser shot zips past his nose. Above on one of the rooftops, a gravelly voice shouts in Eliksni. Crow obeys, raising his hands in the air while Glint transmats out of the way. 

"I'm looking for some fine yaviirsi figs," Crow calls out over the electric hum of multiple sniper-sights  settling on his body. Did they hear him? "Figs!" he shouts louder. 

One by one, the sights vanish. Then, to his right, metal scrapes as a makeshift door is pulled aside to reveal a familiar insect-like face. 

"Avrok," Crow says and lowers his hands. "You've been promoted." 

In no mood for pleasantries, the Eliksni grunts and steps back into the warehouse. Crow follows him in, pulling the door shut behind him. 

"What are the odds on the newly arrived empress?" he asks, blinking rapidly. It's dark; all he can see is Avrok's outline, sitting on a crate, surrounded by massive motionless shapes. "Surely there's an outright on her getting Commander Zavala to bend the knee." 

"Prying bird," Avrok growls, "Information costs." 

"Don't worry, I've brought you something shiny from my nest." Crow holds up a cube of Glimmer, its blue light illuminating piles of collateral stacked along the walls. "As have your friends from the former Red Legion, I see." 

Avrok grins, spreading his long arms in a showman-like gesture. Energy shields, open crates of planet crackers , magma launchers… Cabal paraphernalia of all kinds fill the room. 

One particularly pretty prize gleams in the corner: a Sparrow, svelte and burnished bronze. Crow strolls over to admire it. 

"Beautiful machine," his associate agrees out loud. "Val Ma'rag wagers he will be first on the empress's War Council." 

There's a small flash of light as Glint reemerges  for a closer look. "Betting on himself," Glint says. "That's the Cabal for you." 

Crow crouches to examine the fringe lining the Sparrow's snout. "Never hurts to have a little extra motivation," he murmurs. 

He stands and turns to Avrok. "I'll follow his lead. If Val Ma'rag lands himself a seat, he can have my bucket of bolts  too. But if we disrupt his Rite of Proving, well, naturally…"  

The Fallen barks out a laugh. "A bold bet! The Spider was wrong to let you go. Vigorish  is seven percent." 

"Seven!" Glint blinks indignantly. "The Spider is taking an awfully big cut, don't you think?" 

Ignoring him, Avrok gestures to an empty space. "Leave your little transport there. Now, we discuss the book ." 

"I can't believe you're gambling your Sparrow," Glint mutters once Avrok is out of earshot. "You hate walking long distances." 

Crow shrugs. "I like winning more."

<|endoftext|>

Paradigm Shift

"Never bring her up to me again," Osiris hissed to the Exo Titan, his words carrying over the din of the bustling Hangar. 

A dozen yards away, in the shadow of a jumpship, Crow and Holliday winced in unison. They had only just disembarked and would've stumbled directly into the dispute, if it hadn't been for Crow's reflexes. Thanks to his espionage work, his sixth sense for private conversations was beyond compare. It was nice to know that skill was just as useful at home as it was in the field. 

Damn," Holliday murmured as they watched Osiris storm off. Crow looked at her, hoping for an explanation. Who was this Exo? Who was the "her" never to be mentioned? "I'll tell you later," she whispered, stepping out from their hiding spot. 

"Holliday!" Crow sputtered. But it was too late. She was already at the Exo's side, placing a sympathetic hand on his shoulder. 

He shuffled his feet, weighing his options. Even in the smoothest of circumstances, every new introduction was an occasion for anxiety. Not many Guardians wore masks in the Tower, and much as he wished he could join them, he knew what could happen if he showed his face. Still, the longer he wore the mask, the more conspicuous he felt. He was bound to raise someone's suspicions eventually. 

Or perhaps not. The Exo was wearing a helmet, and Holliday seemed to accept it without question, as she had Crow's not too long ago. 

Besides, what was more suspect: perpetually wearing a mask or skulking in the shadows? Crow ducked out from under the step, attempting to look casual. He approached just as Holliday was saying, "You'll let me know if I can haul a few bricks?" 

He barely had time to wonder what they had been discussing when the Exo turned to him, thundering, "And who is this? You are skinny, but you move with power. You must be a Hunter." 

Whatever perfectly innocuous greeting Crow had cued up flew right out of his head. Throat tight, he nodded mutely as Holliday slapped him on the back with a laugh. 

"This is Crow. He's our intel guy on this whole Cabal thing," she said. "And Crow, this is Saint-14. He's… well, he's lots of things, but his main gig is running the Trials of Osiris." 

For once, he was grateful for the mask. Otherwise, they might have noticed his surprise at the name. He'd heard before, of course—both here, where it was uttered in tones of admiration, and on the Tangled Shore, where it was spat in loathing. Neither seemed to fit the jovial Titan grasping his forearm. 

His spy instincts saved him again. "Really? That's interesting," Crow remarked, returning the gesture with a little extra muscle. "I've only ever heard them referred to as the Trials. I had no idea Osiris was involved." 

Saint pulled back with a chagrined chuckle. "He is involved with many important tasks. I help where I can." 

"You do more than just help," Holliday corrected. "I hope the old man knows he owes you." 

Crow looked to Saint. He'd never imagined that Osiris would owe anyone anything. 

"Help carries no debt, friend. We must uplift each other without expecting a return. Except Banshee," he added, almost seeming to wink at them. "Who owes me Glimmer." 

Crow laughed, utterly disarmed. He was surprised at how much he liked Saint. And how much he wanted to be liked in return. What could this affable character possibly have in common with an intimidating figure like Osiris? 

Outside of his thoughts, he realized Holliday was talking. He tuned back in just as she said, "…things gotta be equitable. Don't you think?" 

Suddenly, Saint's demeanor shifted. "I do not think so," he said soberly. "In battle, when your comrade stumbles, you carry them until they are strong again. Even if you, too, become wounded. This is only way to move forward…" 

Something about his tone struck a chord in Crow. It occurred to him that Saint and Osiris must've known each other for a long time. What was it like, the assurance and ease of having someone else to watch your back like that? To fight side by side for the same cause? He ached to know. 

"Always nice to talk, Miss Holliday. You too, skinny Crow," Saint quipped as he strode off. 

Crow watched as the broad-shouldered Titan parted the crowd with ease. "Nice to meet you," he replied lamely, too late to be heard. 

Holliday chuckled. Crow shot her a look. Now would she explain what was going on? 

She shook her head. "It's a long story," she said, slinging her arm around his shoulder. "Which I will only tell over a round of drinks. On you this time, right?"

<|endoftext|>

Color of Speed

Eva Levante threads a needle with fine white silk. A lone lamp lights the wood grain of her table and the length of handsome black cloth in front of her. She only touches this garment at night, when her small flat in the Last City is shrouded in secrecy. 

With each stitch, she recalls the strange encounter some months ago that prompted her clandestine work: 

It was late that evening. She had been walking back from the Tower, nearly home, when she heard a smooth voice quietly assert, "Eva. It's been too long. You look as bright as ever." Osiris melted out of the shadows near her doorway. 

The ex-outfitter snorted. "That's faint praise coming from someone who's been fifty for several centuries." 

"My age shows in other ways. May I come in?" 

"Of course." She opened the door and noticed how he looked over both shoulders before crossing the threshold. 

"It's good to see you back in the Tower, Osiris." Eva watched him out of the corner of her eye as she put the kettle on. "I take it you're not here on official Vanguard business." 

"No, I'm not. I'm here to ask a favor, or contract your services. Whichever you'd prefer." Osiris perched uncomfortably on the edge of her couch. Eva smiled. His regalia looked a bit absurd set against the mundanity of her cozy apartment. 

"I'm always happy to grant a favor to an old friend. Even if I'm the old one now." She examined her self-serious visitor with a gentle gaze. "What do you need?" 

"A custom Hunter cloak. Something that resembles feathers of a crow." 

"I'm sure there are plenty of outfitters in the Tower that would do a fine job. I gave up on custom outfits years ago, after my fingers started to go." She massaged her knuckles reflexively. 

"I need someone I trust. Someone who can keep a secret." Osiris fixed her with his inscrutable gaze. "If you agree, a Ghost called Glint will come by later to help choose the fabric." 

"A secret cloak? This is just the type of thing Cayde used to come to me for. In fact, the last Hunter cloak I sewed was for him…" She drifted off sorrowfully, and poured the tea. 

Now, months later, she puts the finishing touches on the requested garment. The black fabric soaks in the meager light, highlighting the delicate white silk. It's as fine a work as she's ever done. 

Eva can't help but wonder who the new cloak is for. Who could warrant such secrecy? She just hopes it will be worn by as worthy a Hunter as her last.

<|endoftext|>

Riis Racer

Amanda Holliday sat cross-legged on the floor of the Hangar, hands propped on her knees and elbows bent as she leaned forward. Showering sparks rained down on her clothes and bare arms, mutedly reflected in her welding goggles. The prickling sensation of the sparks on her skin was comforting, familiar. So too was the half-finished Sparrow refit her new assistant was working on. But the assistant? That was taking some getting used to.

"I don't know why this is so surprising," Amanda said as she looked over at the Eliksni Vandal working a pair of arc-welders held in four hands. She laughed to herself, rubbing her cheek as a spark bounced off it. "Always wondered how y'all built stuff so fast."

The Eliksni engineer—Niik—winked three eyes in Amanda's direction before returning her attention to the welding work. "Easier see too. No eye-shields," Niik explained with a smile. "Eliksni eyes-quick better than Human." Then, quieter, "Not as much as before-home, but…"

"What do you mean?" Amanda wondered. Niik stopped welding, set her tools down, and reclined back with two hands on the concrete floor and two folded in her lap. She looked up at the ceiling and sighed a faint Ether mist.

"Story-lives greater than now-true selves," Niik explained, then looked sidelong at Amanda. "We all lost purpose after…" Niik carefully considered the proper Human words, "…our Golden Age."

It was Amanda's turn to sigh, more so in regret than Niik's sigh of patience. "You ever ridden a Sparrow before?" she asked in an attempt to change the tone of the conversation. She hadn't considered the question before asking it.

Niik shook her head and focused her attention on the half-finished machine in front of her. "Too small," she said with a shrug of her upper shoulders. "Pikes stronger, but quick-run."

Amanda couldn't help but laugh at that. "Darlin'," she said through the laughter, "ain't no Pike faster than my Sparrow." 

Niik's eyes lit up, and she sat forward at the perceived challenge. Amanda remembered the last radio conversation she had with Crow, an Eliksni phrase he used. A friendly challenge. Her pronunciation was not quite right, but the intention was. Niik delighted at the interaction.

"Your boasts are hollow-hull," Niik said with a growl of laughter and clambered up onto one knee. Amanda's eyes widened for just a moment when it looked like Niik was going to pounce on her. As if she had somehow said the wrong phrase or challenged the Vandal to a duel. No weapons were drawn, however. Instead, Niik offered two hands to help Amanda up from the floor; she pulled her up with ease.

"Are we gonna… race?" she asked with a nervous flutter of laughter and crooked smile. 

Niik nodded enthusiastically. "Yes, race."

<|endoftext|>

Eternal Recurrence

Petra Venj found Jolyon on the range, as she'd expected. A lone figure, lying face down on the ridgeline, sighting a barely visible target on the far side of the ravine. 

"You never really needed a spotter, did you?" 

"No," Jolyon replied, squinting up at her, "but I always liked the company." He offered her a rangefinder. "Care to join me?" 

Petra settled down beside him, and sighted the next target. 

Jolyon pressed his eye to The Supremacy's massive scope. "I heard he's back," he said. 

"Then you heard wrong." Petra squinted through the rangefinder. "You know how it is with Guardians. He goes by 'Crow' now." 

Jolyon snorted. "Ironic. Only Uldren could make immortality a demotion." 

"Wind is 16 kph from your nine, 4,700 meters out," Petra replied. "Send it." 

Jolyon let out a long, slow exhale. Then: a deafening BOOM as The Supremacy kicked. Petra didn't bother to check the target. 

"He took a lot of abuse after he rezzed," she said, breaking the silence before it could fully settle. "And never knew why. Gave him a bit of… humility. If you can believe it." 

Jolyon lifted his head, shifting his focus from the scope to Petra's inscrutable expression. He raised an eyebrow. "I'd like to see that for myself." 

"I know." Petra pressed her lips together in sympathy. "That's why I'm here. Mara thinks it's best if we limit his contact with others." 

"Keeping him in her pocket, huh? Uldren might have changed, but it sounds like Queen Mara is the same as ever." 

Petra's tone hardened. "Be that as it may, you've got your orders. Stay away." 

"It's fine," Jolyon said with a smile. It did not reach his eyes. "I've gotten used to Uldren being dead. Probably best he stays that way."

<|endoftext|>

Headless Horsepower

Glint compiled as Crow made his way down an enormous metal corridor festooned with Caiatl's banners.

They were directed to a room aboard the Cabal flagship; a simple space furnished for guests. When the door closed and they were finally alone again, Glint waited expectantly for Crow's usual candor. But there was none.

"So," Glint finally ventured, "how is it going?"

Crow hoisted himself into a massive, Cabal-sized chair and regarded Glint from the corner of his eye. "A little eye-opening. Maybe even frustrating. Or infuriating. It's… like being in a room of Saladins."

Glint hovered hesitantly in front of Crow's face. "Are you nervous about meeting Caiatl? You don't need to be."

"Why are you being… weird?" Crow asked with a hint of annoyance.

"It's just that you don't really need me here. This is a Cabal battleship—the only thing that could hurt you here is the food."

Crow snorted. "It's really not so dangerous, once you learn to sneak up on it." He paused to consider Glint's position. "You're right, though. Caiatl won't let anything happen to me. It would be a… diplomatic incident."

"So, I was thinking," Glint continued, "that as long as you're safe, I could take some time to do a little research. For my collection of tall tales and legends."

"You mean your stories about the cult of Pumpkin Men?"

"They're called Headless Ones!" Glint chirped back. And then, with increasing urgency: "There have been credible reports for centuries from all over Sol detailing very similar phenomena, without any clear cause or link—"

Crow held up his hand. "The Headless Ones," he said abruptly, cutting into Glint's analysis. Glint backed away slightly and nodded.

"You're not going alone, are you?" Crow asked.

"No. The Guardian said they'd go with me."

Crow contemplated for what felt like a very long time to both of them. When he finally spoke, his voice was small and low. "Just promise me one thing."

"Anything."

"When the shooting starts… remember to keep your head."

Glint's groan echoed through the halls of the battleship.

It was a groan of adventure.

<|endoftext|>

Mind Shard

Prime-40 leaned against the side of the small café and watched the children of the City happily chasing Artemis.

Artemis seemed to enjoy it as much as the children did. He barked playfully and wagged his tail as if to encourage them as they ran to him, only to suddenly juke and sprint quick circles around the courtyard over and over as they laughed. Finally, he flopped down in the shade of a wooden table, and the children descended on him in a whirlwind of head pats and belly rubs.

The roar of a Sparrow broke the calm. Prime-40 stepped forward as it tore past, his cloak whipping around him in the dusty air.

Another Guardian heading up to the Tower, Prime-40 thought. He squinted into the distance and saw a stream of ships leaving the Hangar, heading east. 

"Something's happening at the Cosmodrome," he said quietly. 

Artemis trotted over to him and whined. Prime-40 knelt and scratched him behind his ears.

"Come on," he said.

The Exo and his dog walked along the low wall at the edge of the City. Prime-40 ran a gloved hand along the rough and crumbling surface, his fingers absentmindedly skimming over cracks from years of wear. 

When they reached a gap in the easternmost point, Prime-40 climbed through without trouble and gazed for a moment at the dry grassland stretching far into the distant mountains. He kicked a stone block upright and sat down, resting his strong back against the City wall.

Artemis sat obediently at his feet.

"If trouble's coming," Prime-40 said, gesturing past the scrub and blooming mesquite, "it's coming from over there."

Artemis barked in agreement.

"Whatever it is, we'll handle it together," Prime-40 said. "Same as always."

Artemis huffed contentedly, laid down, and crossed his front paws protectively over Prime-40's boots.

The two looked out over the plains, and together, they waited for what would come next.

<|endoftext|>

Ivory Empress

Amanda raised her eyebrows as Crow cruised onto the landing pad. He sat atop a gleaming new Sparrow, adorned with gold and ivory. 

"Fancy ride, huh?" he asked.

"Yeah, fit for a prince," Amanda replied dourly. 

Crow ignored the dig with a wan smile. "It's not mine. Just borrowing it while I'm on Earth."

Amanda gave a small harrumph. "Borrowing it from the Cabal?" 

Crow rapped one of the curling ivory horns with his knuckle. "How could you tell?"

"Guess that means you've got some new friends now," she snapped, sharper than intended.

Crow scuffed the ground with his toe. "Not really. I don't have a lot of close friends. There's Glint, of course. But he's more like an appendage."

"Well, you used to have plenty of friends," she said, "but that was a lifetime ago."

Crow opened his mouth to retort but stopped short. The silence stretched on.

"Don't let me find that thing on my landing pad when I get back," Amanda finally said, crossing her arms. "This ain't a parking lot."

Crow nodded and slowly scooted past, keeping his eyes forward. As Amanda watched him go, she heard a small, digital voice chirp, "Did you call me an appendage?"

The shipwright smiled and then immediately caught herself. Her smile curdled into a sour frown. She clenched her fists in frustration.

"Why do you do this to yourself, Holliday?" she muttered as she stormed back to the Hangar. "Every time. Every damn time."

<|endoftext|>

Criticality of Quickness

Darkness signatures decay in just under two days.

Ether residue degrades in as little as 4 hours.

Hive ritual oils dissipate in less than 20 minutes.

As agents of the Hidden, you must understand: evidence is fleeting, and time is your enemy. That means you must act in swiftness… but not in haste. Never in haste.

Put your hands down. I recognize that look. 

A few years after I bonded with Ikora Rey—long before the Last City—we happened upon a settlement near the ruins of Sturivon in the EDZ. We discovered the locals slaughtered, with no surviving eyewitnesses. But Ikora was quite familiar with Fallen weapons, even by then, and recognized the impact marks immediately. She wasted no time mounting an assault on the Fallen camp in the nearby hills. 

Only when she got there, she found no one but the sick and the young, completely unarmed.

Had Ikora investigated the ruins of the settlement more thoroughly, she would have discovered the Human boot prints. You see, it turns out the Warlord Benyo Lukacs had raided the Fallen camp days earlier; he put their warriors to the sword and stole their weapons for his own use.

Ikora spent 14 hours tracking the Fallen encampment, and another 11 rushing back to find the clues she missed. Her haste gave Lukacs a 25-hour lead. Time enough for him to wipe out two refugee caravans. One-hundred and eighty-four lives lost… all because she did not spare another five minutes' investigation.

Begin your new lives understanding the vital difference between quickness and recklessness. Unless you think yourself strong enough to carry the weight of 184 mistakes.

—Audio Recording, Advanced Forensics Introductory Lecture, Ophiuchus

<|endoftext|>

Fifteenth Wish

"This one you shall cherish." —Riven of a Thousand Voices

<|endoftext|>

Weapons

The tools with which a Guardian defends the system.

<|endoftext|>

Primary

Weapons that consume white ammo.

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Primus

Ghaul was an unexpected gift to my coliseum—a disfigured albino from the outer wastes who defeated opponents three times his weight. How could I resist such a unique creature? 

He fought with terrible discipline and patience. Most gladiators wanted to stand in the center of the arena and trade blows until the weaker one died. Not Ghaul. He never attacked from the front, never stood in one place. Frustrated and exhausted, his opponent would make a mistake. 

I used to play a game with those puffed-up aristocrats that would gamble at my arena. I bet on Ghaul, and anyone who had displeased me had to bet against him. It was fun for a time, but his talent was too valuable to risk in the coliseum. I appointed him Primus of the Red Legion and instead, set him loose upon my enemies.

<|endoftext|>

Duty Bound

Taeko-3 was smirking again. Sloane liked a lot of things about her. The smirk wasn't one of them.

"Sure. A weird Hive ritual. Nothing we haven't seen before, right?"

Sloane gripped the railing. "Everything under those waves is something we haven't seen before." The Hunter behind Taeko rolled his eyes. The railing crunched under Sloane's hand.

"You worry too much, boss! We've dropped a thousand Hive with our Sparrows. When the three of us"—the Hunter flourished a blade, and the other Warlock cocked a shotgun; did they practice this?—"are working together, we're unstoppable."

Sloane walked forward and put her hands on Taeko's shoulders. The smirk disappeared. The Hunter's blade dropped, but he caught it out of the air.

"Taeko. They're not always going to have your back. What are you going to do when you're the last one standing?"

The smirk came back. "Easy. Embrace the Praxic Fire."

<|endoftext|>

Breakneck

"Y'know," said Cenric, a thick-necked Risen with a bulging vein in his forehead, "I've always thought you were a sneak. But after five drinks on your dime, I'm feeling pretty fond of you, Drifter."

Everyone laughed. Drifter smiled, feet kicked up on the bar. The rifle holstered on his back was heavy with promise.

"You're a real smooth talker," he said. "I wonder… You whisper those same sweet nothings to your pal Lord Rience?"

The bar fell quiet. The vein in Cenric's forehead began to twitch. 

"Listen, no one's rockin' the boat here," Jaak spoke up. "We shut Rience out, just like you said."

"Funny. I seen you in that valley, too. And Otto, and Ayrin, and Thalia…" He looked at them each in turn. "Guess my eyes are playing tricks on me."

Cenric pushed his stool back. "You have something to say, say it plain."

"Well, Cen—my eyes might be shot, but this…" He tapped the side of his nose. "Just fine. And I smell a rat." He sniffed. "A whole mess of 'em, actually."

Cenric stood up. That vein of his looked about ready to pop. Drifter let his feet down as he reached for his rifle, asp-quick. "And you know what we do with rats, don't you, brother."

<|endoftext|>

Chroma Rush

The Eliksni awkwardly shouldered its way onto the empty stool at the ramen shop and rested its four elbows on the bar.

Maurice looked up over the huge pot of broth and, thinking a Titan in one of their ridiculous helmets had arrived for lunch, called out "Irasshaimase!" It wasn't until he absently stepped to the bar that he realized who his customer was.

Metal plating covered the creature's forehead and the side of its face, ending in a nozzle that hissed a stream of blueish mist. A haphazard collision of heavy canvas and metallic weave draped over its shoulders. A Vanguard lanyard dangled absurdly from its neck. 

It was small for an Eliksni, but its angular head still towered above Maurice as it hunched over the bar. Four blue eyes looked back at him from above a lipless mouth. It opened, revealing rows of thin, sharp teeth. 

"One item ramen soup," the Eliksni croaked stiltedly. "Please." 

Maurice held his breath, tightened his grip on his pencil, and grinned. He grinned when he was nervous, and this seemed like as good a time as any. 

The Eliksni grinned back, nodded, and then opened its horrible mouth again. "I smelled it, and the smell was good," it said.

Maurice scanned the bar. His other customers sat frozen, their bowls of ramen steaming silently in front of them. He realized his mouth had apparently decided to talk on its own, as if nothing were wrong. He heard himself ask, "How spicy, zero to five stars?"

The Eliksni had anticipated this question. "Spicy five stars," it said, holding up one hand with three claws splayed, and another with two. "May I receive additional dead flesh, please?"

"You got it," Maurice said, his even voice betraying none of his tension, and he turned back to the bubbling pot of broth. Muscle memory took over, and he soon found himself placing a steaming bowl of ramen in front of the creature, who clucked cheerfully.

Maurice took a half-step back. A small crowd was forming in the walkway in front of the restaurant. Some of the customers leaned in as their curiosity overcame their terror. Maurice noticed the woman in seat 2 needed more water, but it could wait. 

The Eliksni raised its arms tentatively, then looked to Maurice again. "What is the protocol?" 

Maurice found himself unsure of which pair of the Eliksni's eyes to look into and focused on the ramen instead. "Well, you eat the noodles and pork and egg with—" 

"Egg," repeated the Eliksni, enjoying the unfamiliar word.

"—yeah, egg. You eat all that with the chopsticks, and you get the broth with the spoon." Maurice saw how the Eliksni's claws dwarfed the ceramic spoon. "Or you can just lift the whole bowl and drink it."

Maurice mimed lifting a bowl to his lips. The Eliksni nodded. Its claws tapped the metal on its face and the hissing blue mist ceased. 

The Eliksni held the chopsticks, tested their weight, and respectfully placed them back on the bar before bringing the bowl to its mouth with its upper arms. Above the ramen bowl, Maurice saw all four of the Eliksni's eyes close. 

A long moment of tension fell over the shop, the silence broken only by a staccato series of hissing slurps.

Finally, the Eliksni lowered the empty bowl. It breathed in as the blue mist resumed its thin spray. It looked toward Maurice. "I tasted all of it," it said with deep satisfaction. "I am very thankful."

Maurice's grin turned into a tentative smile. "Glad you enjoyed it." 

The Eliksni stood and held out what looked like a small model of the Traveler. It glowed as it floated in the Eliksni's palm. "Compensation," it said.

Maurice reached to take the treasure, then drew his hand back. "For new customers, there is no charge," he said. "No compensation. Thank you for coming in." 

The Eliksni cocked its head, then clucked and the model vanished beneath the folds of its cloak. It smiled at Maurice. 

"You," it said, then cleared its throat with a rumble, "you are a—" and the five spirited words that followed were replete with hard consonants. 

In the confused silence that followed, the Eliksni nodded graciously, then walked through the crowd outside and deeper into the City.

<|endoftext|>

Shadow Price

[RECORDED VIA [REDACTED] SURVEILLANCE NET: TS-04, [REDACTED]]

HLS: Come, hatchlings. Hear the story of the Ether-blood Lightbearer. The one who wields Ethraaks's blades. She wandered a troubled Shore with vengeance in her heart, searching for the one who had wronged her: the devil-turned-spiderling, Driksys. Food and Ether we shared. The House of Light once again found peace with a Guardian, yes?

HLS: We know of Driksys. One who always thirsted for power, cursed machines, Dark flows of energy, it made no difference. This time, he sought power through Cabal; Legion-rumors of vile splinters from Europa filled his mind with temptations.

HLS: Cabal roamed the Shore, battering against one another in displays of might. Like the Kells of old, they fought for the claim to supremacy… to serve Caiatl of the dead-world fleet. Driksys saw many Kells come and go. Driksys understood fragile loyalties. Understood importance of strength seen. Driksys offered Legion use of his ring for their challenges, and from Cabal blood, he drew profit.

HLS: I stood with Driksys before the House of Light. This one saw him weave truthless words to collect promises. Contacts on Europa. Introductions. Shipments. Brought to Spider, entire ring would have died… many Eliksni lose. When the Ether-blood Lightbearer spoke Driksys's name, we imagined another way forward. She did not wish harm on innocent Eliksni, only the Fallen fiend: Driksys… and so this House granted shimmer-cloak to conceal, and passage to find her prey.

HLS: Old friends traded for information, access, codes. Driksys oversaw new ring, made for Cabal battle-trials. Challengers from across the Reef fought to lead the Shore's Cabal. The Lightbearer withheld her rage and made her way beneath the stands. To the overlook, where Driksys watched a champion preparing for challengers… in the ring below.

HLS: Trihn, the Lightbearer, drew blades of Ethraaks and burst into the overlook. To confront Driksys, her heart full with vengeance, her mind set on war. But he was not alone. An emissary of the new empress had come to see the challenges. Receiving this emissary, Cabal Blood Guard. The Lightbearer charged Driksys, and a savage battle ensued.

HLS: She was thrown from the overlook, into the ring of challengers… before a great Cabal Gladiator who spoke to her. The Lightbearer, unbeknownst to her, had issued a challenge by entering his ring. If she did not fight, all Cabal would descend upon her. Her victory must be earned with strength and blade alone. No other weapons. No other powers. A proving she accepted to again clear a path to her prey.

HLS: The Gladiator bellowed laughter at the small Awoken Lightbearer. Their blades met, and over many clashes her speed proved superior to the Cabal's might. The blades of Ethraaks are strong—sliced through Cabal armor, left blood and oil in their wake.

HLS: She had found victory, but as her Ghost tended to her wounds, Driksys-coward fled to safety through transmat. Though, all was not lost. The Lightbearer's battle had drawn eyes of the emissary, who lavished praise on her for her prowess, and issued an invitation to speak with Cabal Empress herself. When the Lightbearer returns to us, the House of Light will be ready to assist her in hunting Driksys again.

<|endoftext|>

The Number

"NEXUS" HARDLINE APERTURE FORK, INTEGRATION LOGS…

I:
Integration failure. Firewall rejection.

II:
Integration failure. Firewall penetrated. Drone lost. 

III:
Integration failure. Feedback explosion, three fatalities. Expeditionary team decontaminated and awaiting medical clearance. Reassessing handshake parameters for Network access.

IV:
FWC-Paracausal asset "Riley" deployed.
Integration SUCCESS. Collection exceeded physical memory allotment. Kill-feed initiated.
Unscheduled integration incident - BREACH, CONTAINMENT FAILURE. Connection severed after 00:00:00.02s.

V:
BREACH, CONTAINMENT FAILURE. Incursion suppressed after three hours. Ninety-two fatalities.
Containment & Purge procedures under review.

VI:
Expeditionary team and asset MIA. Feeds corrupted.
Connection open. Connection open. Connection open.

<|endoftext|>

Chrysura Melo

There's a saying among con artists: "Half the fun is showing the mark which cup hid the ball before you take their money." 

Savathûn understands. In her crystalline prison, she reflects on all her surreptitious winks and little nods. The risks taken and the boundaries pushed to keep herself entertained and her Worm fed.

Before… 

Osiris stumbles as he walks through the Last City. Beneath his robes, something erupts in a frenzy of motion. He pauses to compose himself and then walks on, trailing careless spatters of black fluid.

Before…

Osiris watches the Crucible match unfold. He does not cheer for either opponent. When a Ghost appears to revive the defeated warrior, Osiris leans forward in careful study. When Saint places a hand on his forearm, Osiris holds impossibly still just to see what the other man will do.

Before…

Osiris sits by the campfire as Crow and the Guardian share a drink. Osiris watches them with rapt attention. Crow is laughing. He passes the bottle, and Osiris, hands numb, puzzles at it. His mouth hangs in a half-smile before he takes a long drink, slaking a bone-deep thirst. 

Before…

Osiris takes a shaky step forward. The High Celebrant howls in the catacombs, and he hears his sister's voice buried in its roar. He feels his heart beating in his chest and is so enraptured by the sensation that he forgets to be frightened.

Before…

Savathûn, physical form a twisting instar, emerges from the shadows and crawls over the shattered pieces of the Ghost. She reaches toward the ruined man. 

Before…

Savathûn squeezes through the calcified channels of ascendant energy and manifests within the dangling Ahamkara skull. 

The man standing below the netting senses her appearance. His Light flares as he draws his weapon with impossible speed.

She has only a moment: She pushes her face down through the ropes, opens her mouth, and sings. 

The man stops, then slowly holsters his weapon. He turns, crosses his arms, and forgets. 

She melts awkwardly back into the skull as best she can, though a tangle of spindly elbows, licorice-black, still juts from its sockets. She turns her attention to her quarry across the gap and hums her song softly to mask herself. 

Soon, the man below begins to hum along with her.

She smiles.

<|endoftext|>

Prosecutor

A COURT 
A  V A U L T 
A Maelstrom. 
a cauldron 
A realm. 
A VOID 
A N  E Q U I N O X 
A meridian. 
A  S H I F T 
certainly 
Trials no more. Not like they were. 
A KEEP 
A  P A R A L L A X 
An apex. 
a plane 
A COURT 
A  V A U L T 
A Maelstrom. 
a cauldron. 
Of what? 
OF STARS 
O F  N I N E

<|endoftext|>

Sweet Sorrow

Amanda Holliday hurls a wrench at the wall, her grunt of effort punctuated by the sharp clang of metal striking metal. Her shoulders rise and fall with each labored breath in the silence that follows. 

She gasps softly and rushes forward—eyes scanning the surface of the wrench for cracks as her fingers frantically reach for the socket. She turns the ratchet, hoping to hear the reassuring click of the gears. But there is nothing, no movement inside from either direction.

"Damn it," Amanda hisses, rubbing the heel of her palm against her eye. "Dammit!" 

She sees a racing helmet at her feet and kicks it across the garage floor. 

Everything around her is a painful reminder of her ignorance: A blue-and-white auto rifle of Cabal design with an inscribed message on the barrel. Her favorite ramen bar and sightseeing locations circled on a map of the Last City. A datapad loaded with coordinates for the old Haakon Precipice racetrack. The nearly finished Sparrow she and Niik had been working on, blazoned with airbrushed feathers of ebony and white.

"Damn it," Amanda whispers. Her back brushes against the wall, and she leans into it as her body slowly crumples to the floor. Her head dips to the side and rests on the cold engine of the Sparrow beside her. She pulls her legs toward her chest and curses into her knees, burying her face in them as her shoulders begin to rise and fall in trembling bursts. 

Of all the friends she could have made, of all the people who could have become important in her life, of all the horrible twists of fate she could have endured…

…why did they all have to be him?

<|endoftext|>

Wolftone Draw

The slithering dark is cold against my face.

I cannot speak, cannot breathe, I reach for Sagira but then I remember… I form a fist but feel nothing, I am bound, and as I thrash the images cut fissures through my mind—

Someone… the Awoken prince? He helps me to my feet… but still I struggle in the dark, and now SHE is standing, thanking him, but she uses my voice, MY voice—

She has stolen my form, my voice, but someone will see my failure and cast her out… they MUST—

A glimmer of sunlight… how long has it been? Zavala looks at me—at her, considers her words, poison cloaked in wisdom. I cry out, he must know. Zavala, listen, LISTEN, you KNOW me, you know not to—

The smell of night flowers… I am walking—SHE is walking through a moonlit garden, and there is Ikora, speaking, laughing, nodding… Look, Ikora, LOOK AT ME, DON'T YOU SEE IT—

Pay attention, pay ATTENTION, I taught you better than this—

A woman—an Exo—sits before me and sways, eyes vacant, but inside she is sinking as well… now her voice, her TRUE voice, humming, a gyre of sound, and the Exo sways faster and faster—

I hear his voice and push to the surface. Saint. No no NO I scream but there is no sound. He looks into her eyes, he smiles, he reaches for me but it is not me, Saint, that is not ME, PLEASE, please—

I am weeping but I cannot weep. I am nothing, only heat and hate, only sickness and shame.

"Trust me," I hear my voice say, and I drown again.

<|endoftext|>

The Vow

In the courtyard of the Tower, Lord Shaxx stares out at the Last City. He puts his foot up on the railing and sighs.

Arcite 99-40 knows Shaxx's moods, because they are his own moods. He sidles up to Shaxx and follows his gaze to the horizon.

"What's on your mind, boss?" he asks with the friendly rhythm of a local bartender.

Shaxx is quiet for a long time, but Arcite is indifferent to the passage of time. When Shaxx speaks, it is with a deep, sobering gravity.

"Today," he says. "I will marry them all."

Hours later, after Arcite has finished tying off the bouquets and gathering the doves from the mountains beyond the City, Shaxx addresses the courtyard.

"Guardians," he booms. "These Crimson Days are a time to renew our bonds to one another. We gather together. We remember what we owe each other. We declare our love." He holds up a bow for the crowd to see. "Bring your fiery passion to the Crucible. Prove your devotion to your Bond." He pauses. "To those of you who win this bow… I offer my hand in marriage! Take it or leave it!"

Arcite releases the doves. Someone screams. Doves have not been seen in the Last City for a long time.

<|endoftext|>

Imperial Needle

New Guardians tend to know two things: gun and shoot. You pick the rest up along the way, and every Guardian's experience tends to be different. Let's just say the onboarding process could use a little streamlining. But as for our enemies, two points are drilled into us from day 1: the Cabal are big, horrible brutes, and the Fallen are untrustworthy scavengers.

What they don't tell you right away is how that is such complete garbage. 

I've seen Cabal who might as well have had rocks in their heads instead of brains. The kind who'll crash a tank, killing themselves, rather than stop to reload munitions in a turret. But I've known just as many Cabal who will stalk you across the Martian dunes for two days straight—no sleep, never revealing themselves. 

That's how I was introduced to Bracus Dra'usk. 

As for the Fallen—sorry, the Eliksni—everyone tells the story of the battle of Twilight Gap, of the Eliksni Houses sending in Dregs to eat babies and other charming bedtime stories. But nobody prepares you for an Eliksni so scared out of her wits that she tries praying to you because she thinks the "Great Machine" will listen through you. An Eliksni so inured in the old ways that she leaves an offering to you—like you're some sort of saint to a lesser god. 

That was how I met Chirrih. 

A few months before the Red War, I was two days in to a long patrol on Mars tracking a limping Skyburner tank back to a carrier rendezvous location. I got sloppy. Didn't realize that the Skyburners had a rear guard because I believed the Cabal were utter morons with the tactical acumen of a boulder. Because that's what I was taught. Not that they're a proud people with a storied history. 

No, I got that driven 12 inches into my abdomen when Bracus Dra'usk, leader of the Skyburner's rear guard, ran me through with a ceremonial knife. 

Normally that would just be a minor inconvenience, except that during the Collapse, the Darkness chewed up large reaches of Mars so bad that Light can't burn there, in the same way that fire can't burn in space. So here I am in a Darkness Zone, bleeding out, my Ghost panicking because he can't do anything to save me, and five angry Cabal ready to throw down. 

Now, I killed all four of Dra'usk's honor guard without needing to reload, but Dra'usk wasn't a pushover. We went a few rounds, me bleeding everywhere, him coming at me with a Sword as long as I am tall. 

That's when I saw movement in my periphery, like a heat mirage. I knew what it was, but didn't have time to react until the electrostatic sheath was already coming off. But then I realized that the Eliksni Vandal coming out of cloak wasn't coming for me—it was coming for Dra'usk. 

You see, what they don't teach you about Eliksni is that they're fiercely loyal when it comes to family. And Dra'usk had kidnapped and killed some of this Eliksni's kin. So here we were, two would-be enemies, taking down a Cabal Bracus like a pair of wolves. At least until I passed out from blood loss. 

To my surprise, I woke up bandaged and alive. The Vandal had left a trail of scrap metal taken from Dra'usk's armor for me to follow like breadcrumbs once I was strong enough to move. My Ghost explained the Eliksni likely spared me for helping defeat a common enemy, but Ghosts aren't omniscient—they're just little nerds who read a lot. Some stuff isn't written down. 

At the end of the trail outside the Darkness Zone, I found the Vandal waiting for me. She introduced herself as Chirrih. I understood her, but barely—she spoke in circular idioms interspersed with Eliksni words. She set down on the sand a trophy she'd crafted from Dra'usk's helmet: a Bow with enough draw strength to penetrate a tank at 100 yards. Then she sang at me—some kind of mandible-clicking prayer—and left. No gunfight, no bloodshed. 

New Guardians tend to know two things: gun and shoot. You pick the rest up along the way, and every Guardian's experience tends to be different. 

Mine sure was.

<|endoftext|>

Midnight Coup

The conspirators came late in the night, skulking into my court while we caroused. Ghaul himself led the coup, and it was by his own Red Legion that we were arrested. 

Imagine my surprise to see the Consul stride into my court so puffed up with pride. He took cheap pleasure hurling spittle in my face. We were frog marched to the Leviathan under cover of darkness. 

There was to be no execution; Ghaul and the Consul feared the mob. They knew how tenuous their grip on power would be, and how the people adored their god-emperor. 

Ghaul dared not look me in the eye. What was the emotion on his face? Was it shame? How could he bear such hate for one who had been as a father to him? 

We were sealed inside the Leviathan and ejected into the furthest reaches of space, left to the same fate I had determined for the Consul so long ago. We were left to die.

<|endoftext|>

Judgment

You sought us out. 
IN SOME SMALL WAY, YOU FOUND US. 
But discovery always has a price. With curiosity comes consequence. 
S H E I S N O T R E A D Y 
SEEK JUDGMENT. GROW.

<|endoftext|>

D.F.A.

For the Staff of Valus Thuun, Commander
From Red Legion Fracture Eight
A Tactical Outcomes Analysis

I. Records, Materials, and Attributions

Scale Three / Bridge / Mass Two
4 Squad [HEAVY INF]
TASK:
- capture endless pathway nodes 332,334,335,336
OUTCOME:
- unit encountered Guardian fireteam. all units survived. colossus reported Guardians sprinting past combat units without engaging. gladiator reported Guardians launching from momentum propulsion devices hundreds of meters above planet surface.

II: Analysis

All but one survivor report nearly identical details of the previous engagement. Morale is sinking, but defections are at zero. Prelim~~~~~~~

For the Staff of Valus Thuun, Commander
From Red Legion Fracture Eight
A Tactical Outcomes Analysis

I. Records, Materials, and Attributions

Scale Three / Bridge / Mass Two
4 Squad [HEAVY INF]
TASK:
- capture endless pathway nodes 333,335,336,337
OUTCOME:
- unit encountered Guardian fireteam. all units survived. colossus reported Guardians sprinting past combat units without engaging. psion reported Guardians launching from momentum propulsion devices hundreds of meters above planet surface.

II: Analysis

All but one survivor report nearly identical details of previous engagement. Morale is sinking, but defections are at zero. Prelim~~~~~~~

For the Staff of Valus Thuun, Commander
From Red Legion Fracture Eight
A Tactical Outcomes Analysis

I. Records, Materials, and Attributions

Scale Three / Bridge / Mass Two
4 Squad [HEAVY INF]
TASK:
- capture endless pathway nodes 331,332,334,335
OUTCOME:
- unit encountered Guardian fireteam. all units survived. psion reported Guardians sprinting past combat units without engaging. colossus reported Guardians launching from momentum propulsion devices hundreds of meters above planet surface.

II: Analysis

All but one survivor report nearly identical details of previous engagement. Morale is sinking, but defections are at zero. Prelim~~~~~~~

<|endoftext|>

Vulpecula

Empress Caiatl brooded over a holographic display of the Dreaming City. The map was marked with bombardment targets, landing zones, and forward operating bases, which had been decided by an emergency convention of her military advisors. Now all that remained was for the empress to order the attack.

Taurun entered quietly, carrying a datapad. She stamped her foot lightly to announce her presence. Caiatl did not look up. 

"As a princess," the empress said, "I heard many stories of the Awoken from my father's mythkeeper. Stories of spaces beyond time. Of the dragons that bend reality. Stories of a whole city, built by wishes."

She sliced the air with her tusks in annoyance. "It would be a waste to destroy it."

"But perhaps a strategic necessity." Taurun bent both knees slightly and held up the datapad, indicating a discovery. "Lord Saladin approached us on behalf of the Vanguard. He confirms what we already suspected. Savathûn, the Witch Queen, is in the Dreaming City."

"A captive?" Caiatl looked up. Taurun thought she detected a concealed note of hopefulness in the ruler's tone. 

"It's unclear." Taurun clicked her teeth in equivocation. "Informants on the ground report that she's confined, but the Psions insist she traveled there of her own free will to escape Xivu Arath."

"A voluntary prisoner." Caiatl glowered. "This smells of Hive trickery."

"It does, my empress." Taurun lowered her brow in deference to her ruler's mood. "However, Mara Sov is powerful, and no stranger to subterfuge. It's fair to assume that she has a plan in place."

"So does Savathûn." Caiatl clicked off the holographic display. Darkness rushed into the room.

Taurun could see the consequences of such a decision weighing heavily on her ruler's brow.

Then, suddenly, the weight lifted—the empress had decided.

"Have Lord Saladin return to Zavala with a message."

<|endoftext|>

Luna's Howl

Josef opened the door. Shaxx filled the hallway beyond.
"You look like hell," said the Crucible Handler.
Josef scoffed. "Get out of here. I have Hive to hunt. No time for the Crucible today."
"Hive. You lost her on the Moon?"
Josef said nothing.
"You aren't the only Guardian to leave loved ones behind on that rock." Shaxx held out a long, lacquered box. "The Gunsmith asked me to deliver this personally."
"What's Banshee thinking? I can't afford this."
"I took care of it. Scavenged parts from my personal collection."
Josef considered it a moment.
"It's a good gun."
"She was a good dog. This isn't a replacement. But it will help you finish your business with the Hive. Then I expect to see you back in the Crucible. We could use the inspiration."

<|endoftext|>

Igneous Hammer

"You don't have to do this, if you don't want to," Ikora said. "I'd understand." 

From the other side of the library, Aunor scowled. She was perhaps the most diligent of the Hidden, having dedicated herself to the unpleasant task of hunting down tainted Guardians. But that was precisely what worried Ikora. Each time they met, she seemed a little gaunter than before. A little testier. Was this crusade beginning to take a toll? Was it a mistake to give her another assignment instead of a vacation? 

"I stand by my promise," Aunor snapped before transmatting out. 

That had not alleviated Ikora's concerns one iota . She let out a sigh and rubbed her temples. 

She couldn't dwell on it for long, however. The air crackled again. When Ikora opened her eyes, Saint was standing exactly where Aunor had been, moments ago. "Ikora Rey, I am sorry to come unannou—"

"How did you get in here?" she blurted. No one but the Hidden knew where her private library was. Or so she had thought. 

The Exo stared at her, confused. "I—I transmatted," he said simply. He tried again. "I am sorry, but I must speak with you." 

"No, I'm the one who should apologize. Please, sit." She hurried to clear the books piled around a pair of armchairs. "I got your message. It's unfortunate this has happened a second time." 

Saint sat, his massive frame dwarfing  the chair. "Unfortunate, yes. Disturbing too. I fear…" He paused, looking away. Out the window, the afternoon sun had turned golden and begun sinking in the sky. "In battle, I know what to do. There are no doubts. The Trials was the same. But now, I do not know." 

"I understand. Sometimes, it feels like these incidents are designed to make us doubt everything, even our own abilities." Ikora sat beside him. "But there's no one I'd trust more to helm the Trials at a time like this." 

"Not even the man they are named for?" Saint let out a sad laugh. "He does not wish to, in any case. I ask and right away, he says he is too busy to care. Told me to shut them down, if I was so tired." 

"Well, he is busy. He's almost acting as a third Vanguard with this whole Cabal conflict.  Perhaps after we come to terms  with Caiatl…"

"You misunderstand. I am glad he is busy. Busy is good. It distracts him from his loss. But he is still…"

"Different?" 

"No. Yes, but more than that." He shook his head in frustration. "When I told him about the incident, I thought he would worry, like me. Instead, he tells me to take notes next time. Said the data would be useful," he spat in disgust. 

Ikora looked at Saint, expecting him to say more. When he didn't, she sat back in her seat, thinking. She wasn't exactly surprised. Osiris was an experimentalist , after all, and not a particularly sensitive one. And though this comment was certainly more callous than usual, she didn't understand Saint's concern. He seemed agitated, almost like he was angry at Osiris…

"That must've been upsetting to hear, after what you went through," she began slowly. Saint looked away, confirming her theory. "But I think his heart's in the right place. We know so little about the Darkness. More data would indeed be very useful." 

Saint said nothing. The light through the window splashed orange across his helm. 

"But," she pressed on, "We shouldn't endanger Guardians to get it. However Osiris feels about them now, the Trials started as a way to train fireteams, and they're going to stay that way." She stood, placing a hand on the Exo's shoulder. "I swear to you." 

He nodded, eyes still fixed on the horizon. "Good."

<|endoftext|>

The Palindrome

Yirix waited. She watched her prey cut slaughter through the EDZ. She watched every weapon and muscle break against their Light. She watched her prey's little Ghost snicker with glee at the death of dozens. Bleak humor to the undying.

They had exercised the same nonchalance as the Almighty bore down to exterminate their parasitic City: Guardians huddled in droves, their eyes trained skyward to watch the destruction of Amtec's vengeance, as if it were some celebratory spectacle.

Yirix and her conclave would not let that revenge be swept aside so easily. They remembered Amtec's words. They remembered the brief hope the Sundial had shown them, and they remembered the name trailed in curses and woe. Although she and her sisters could not hope to destroy a city, they could kill the man who commanded it.

She refocused her eye on the Guardian as it loaded a new cylinder into a crude metal cannon. Her trigger finger twitched in contempt as she looked upon the bodies of the Cabal she had used to lure this Guardian into the open. Yirix had once thought of Human strategies like hidden blades: cowardly and unwilling to engage in anything but guerilla warfare and decapitations of leadership. Watching the Legion disintegrate after Ghaul's death had revealed truer interpretations. Victory cares not for honor, and headless foes cannot resist.

Yirix fired and the Guardian dropped.

"Well placed." The words rippled through her mind as another Psion stepped from concealment behind Yirix. The Psion handed Yirix a new firearm—different from her longbore headhunter. It was lined in silver-colored magnetic rails that hissed with Arc charge. "The carrion Light will reveal itself in time."

"We will wait," Yirix rippled back.

In time, a small Ghost compiled into existence. Yirix waited as the Ghost circled its Guardian. She waited for the Light to build within it. She waited until her target was sure that its actions could lead to nothing but resurrection, and then she fired. The stunned Ghost fell.

Joy filled her mind. "It is effective," she thought.

"Ghaul was no fool," her subordinate rippled in response.

Yirix snorted at the name. "This is not his credit. Ghaul did not invent this technology, but we will learn from his failure."

"Dispose of them. Use its primitive gun. We cannot leave any trace that may lead them back to us."

"It is done," her subordinate thought, acting on Yirix's orders. "We are Amtec's vengeance."

Yirix finished her sister's sentiment. "…and while she struck from the sun, we strike from the shadow."

<|endoftext|>

Survivor's Epitaph

To be the first Eliksni to bask in the presence of the Traveler since the Whirlwind was an honor that Mithrax, Kell of House Light, never imagined for himself. As he stood on the Tower walkway below the scar left in the wake of the Almighty, he meditated on the choices in his life that had led to this point. He wondered if there was a unifying thread binding all those events together. But he would have no time to ponder such things.

A shadow crept over Mithrax: broad shoulders, a curling horn. Seeing the stark outline of Lord Shaxx looming on the stairs elicited centuries-old instincts, and it was temperance that kept Mithrax's hands from his weapon. 

"I didn't expect to actually find you here," Shaxx said as he continued down the stairs with slow, plodding steps. "Were you there?"

"What?" 

Shaxx came to stand beside Mithrax at the railing. "Were you there?" he asked again. This time, he pointed, without looking, to a place on the horizon beyond the Traveler.

Mithrax followed Shaxx's gesture with his eyes. He did not understand. 

"The Battle of Six Fronts," Shaxx insisted, with uncharacteristic softness. "Do you know how many Fallen I killed there?" 

Mithrax bristled at the question, and he felt that instinctual urge to reach for his weapons again. But the presence of the Traveler and the question that nagged at the back of his mind stayed his hands. "How many?" he asked, not wanting to know the answer. 

Shaxx deflated, folded his arms over the railing, and rested his considerable weight against it. "Hundreds," he said quietly. "All of them died afraid."

Mithrax felt Ether mixing with bile in the back of his throat. His limbs trembled, rage burned in his gut, demanding manifestation. But he tempered his anger, sighed so deep that the Ether on his breath was briefly visible as an iridescent cloud.

"How many Humans have you killed?" Shaxx wondered.

"Too many," Mithrax answered, and even that felt insufficient on his tongue; the thought of it twisted his insides around. He sighed again, deeper this time, and Shaxx watched the sublimated Ether glitter in the dim light. 

"When I heard you were in the Tower," Shaxx said, "I thought I'd just throw you over the edge of the wall. I thought about the people I watched die at the hands of your Houses over the years. The Lightless torn limb from limb during the Dark Age." He snorted out a rueful laugh. "Then I started to think about them."

Silence hung in the air for a moment, long enough for Mithrax to ask: "Who?"

"Three scavengers. Huddled together in a collapsed storm drain. They had stolen food during a… a time of famine. Maybe it was for themselves, maybe another settlement, maybe family…" Shaxx shrugged. "I killed them. All three, with my bare hands."

"My victims were Humans too," Shaxx clarified, and the Kell felt his anger twist into confusion. "I was a Warlord in the Dark Ages. Convinced myself of the necessity of my own barbarism by painting it with noble colors. Those loyal to me built a legend that masked the blood and the rot. But it's still there." He tapped his fingers against his breastplate. "Deep down."

The shadows had become long, stars now visible in the sky, and the Traveler was cast in half shadow.

"There was a ship," Mithrax eventually replied. "It may have been soldiers. Civilians. I do not know." He looked away from the Traveler as he spoke. "I led a boarding party onto it. We slaughtered any who resisted and rounded up those who surrendered."

Shaxx turned to look at Mithrax, a wordless question in his faceless mask.

"We argued what to do with the prisoners. Some suggested we keep them as warning-trophies. Others said to barter with them." Mithrax looked away, shoulders sagged. "But I was young. Impatient." He closed his eyes. "I opened the airlock. It seemed the simplest solution."

Both soldiers sank into silence again and remained so as the last glimpse of sunlight descended beyond the horizon. Shaxx sullenly took his leave, and Mithrax was left with the remnants of anger and confusion, and paradoxically—an answer.

He saw then the thread of choices leading to this moment. The choices that led to the Great Machine and away from a fate like Eramis had suffered. It was something both he and Shaxx learned to accept in spite of a lifetime of experience telling them otherwise.

Mercy.

<|endoftext|>

Relentless

do you hear us 
YOU WANTED POWER 
It is not for you. 
W E H A V E A T A S K F O R  Y O U 
FIND THE WORTHY. BRING THEM. 
three keys 
THREE ARE REQUIRED 
Show them. 
E M P H A S I Z E I T 
EVERYTHING DIES. THEY ARE NO EXCEPTION. 
we're immortals, they'll say 
C O R R E C T.  
And yet, who dies more than they do? 
N O N E 
only when they accept this can they be born anew 
BE RELENTLESS.

<|endoftext|>

Redrix's Claymore

Redrix-3 slid past roaring tracers and slammed into a concrete lectern so hard he cracked it, tiny puffs of dust drifting up around him. "Randy, you idiot!" he screamed into his radio. "You pissed him off!"
"I shot him," came Randy's voice over comms. "That's what we do in the Crucible, Redrix."
Just as Redrix thought it was safe to leave his cover, heavy rifle fire thundered against the other side of the dais. His opponent was warning him to stay put. He keyed his radio. "But you didn't kill him, Randy. Now he knows where we are. I'm pinned down! Wait for everyone else to catch up—"
The sky fell. Redrix only heard it when he felt it, every atom of his body dissolving as a bolt from the blue sky blasted a crater into the earth. His emerging fireteam was caught in the wake.
Their ghosts brought them all back in staccato bursts of Light.
Lord Shaxx beckoned them into the crater he had made.

"Make take," Redrix said. His fireteam and Shaxx all stared.
"Make take," Redrix tried again. His Ghost frowned, and ran a beam of Light across Redrix's chassis.
"How many of these tests are you going to make us take?" Redrix managed. His Ghost nodded.
"Just the one," Shaxx said. "Spread the word. Starting today, the Crucible is ranked. And you've all just been seeded. Go make history."

<|endoftext|>

Cold Denial

The Wizard floats horizontally, inches off the ground, restrained by a mesh cocoon that ripples with Arc energy. The restraints crackle and hiss as the Hive lieutenant struggles. The Warlock glances uneasily at her captive.

"Guardian is insult. Sword Logic is death to weakness. Death to sick. Keep alive weakness makes weakness alive," the Wizard says and then rattles off a thick stream of guttural sounds that the Guardian's Ghost can't translate. The Warlock assumes they're curses.

"You're lucky we disagree. We value more than just brute strength. We value all the things that make strength worth having. Like ingenuity. Or kindness. Or friendship," the Guardian says. She scans the horizon uneasily. It's been over thirty minutes since her fireteam last checked in. "I wouldn't expect you to understand."

The Wizard clacks his teeth in disdain. "Kill makes all nothing. Dead kindness nothing. Dead friend nothing. Kill is highest."

"Well then, I should probably shoot you right now," the Guardian snaps at her prisoner. Her fireteam's prolonged absence is making her edgy. "Is that what you want?"

"Yes. You kill now. Is Logic." The Wizard shows no fear.

The Guardian shakes her head. "You lot are the worst."

Where the hell are they?

<|endoftext|>

Forge's Pledge

Iron Lord Saladin Forge is not a man to be fooled with.

If you make a joke at his expense, you had best hope he laughs when he hears it—and he never laughs.

Iron Lord Saladin Forge is not a man to be slighted.

If you wound him, you had best hope he forgets you—and he never forgets.

Iron Lord Saladin Forge is not a man to be lied to.

If you mislead him, you had best hope he never finds out—and he always finds out.

And if, for some unfathomable reason, you decide to pose as his friend and advisor, sow rumors within his ranks, whisper lies in his ear, and lay the full force of your foul deceit upon him…

You had best hope that your worm god, your sword logic, your tithes and tributes and reams of ageless bargains are enough to keep you safe.

And you will never be safe from Iron Lord Saladin Forge.

<|endoftext|>

Inaugural Address

I wanted a desert of pure white sand to stage my celebration. It took them three days to clear the wasteland of any stone or plant of offending color, but when they were done, it was a perfect canvas for the violet pavilion. We recreated my court in nearly every detail beneath the glinting sun. 

 The first act of my coronation was to have the Consul kneel at my feet. He was a pathetic figure, stripped of title, rank, and clothing. He would never wield power again, and would beget no heir. I made sure of that personally. 

I had only a single word for him: "Run."

<|endoftext|>

The Time-Worn Spire

A cold wind whipped Lord Saladin's cloak as he reached the bottom of the stairwell and entered a small courtyard carved in the side of the Wall. The orange glow of the Last City poured through the arched windows, washing over the room's contents: leafy ferns, decorative pillars, a dried-up tiled fountain; and Commander Zavala, seated at a small metal table against a wall. Saladin approached his former apprentice.

"Wouldn't your office be more comfortable?" the Iron Lord asked.

Zavala smiled faintly. "A different field for a different kind of battle."

Saladin took a seat at the table. "Quaint."

Zavala grabbed a woven blanket from his lap and offered it to his mentor.

"Wolves wear their own coats," Saladin said.

Zavala smiled and tucked the cover under his chair, turning his attention to the lacquered wooden board in front of him. Etched lines formed a grid on its surface, and a pile of white and black oblate stones rested nearby. "Shall we?"

Saladin picked up a stone and placed it on the board. Zavala followed with his own move, and the game was on. They sat silently as pieces continued to be set and removed. The board became crowded. Saladin held on his next turn, methodically scanning for options. He eventually grunted and waved in resignation.

"I'm surprised you still invited me," Saladin said, breaking their silence.

Zavala hesitated before he answered, fidgeting with a stone. "Your dissension on Caiatl has been frustrating, I will admit."

"You were expecting an Iron Lord to remain silent?" Saladin asked.

Zavala sighed. "I was hoping an old friend would respect my position."

"Titles are implements," Saladin said. "What earns respect is how you use them."

Zavala smiled. "And how should I use mine?"

"To meet Caiatl head-on, and cut her down," Saladin said. "A decisive action for a decisive victory."

"You desire another full-scale war with the Cabal? To chase them through the black gulfs?" Zavala asked. "How many will die on this crusade of yours? And what will you leave behind?"

Saladin chuckled sardonically. "Still finding excuses to avoid the hard choices. Every victory requires sacrifices."

"You would wear those sacrifices as accolades, but I see them for what they are," Zavala said firmly. "Consequences of my failure."

"It's easy to judge from your plush command center," Saladin growled as his demeanor soured. "But someday soon, you'll find yourself in a position with no easy way out. No victory on the horizon, no clever escapes. Nothing but a disaster and a choice of who pays the price."

"There are more currencies in war than the body count," Zavala said gravely. 

Saladin looked out at the glimmering lights of the Last City. "Maybe so, but you don't always get to choose. Sometimes the exchange is decided for you. Sometimes you're stuck on the other side of the door while your friends burn."

Zavala saw pain in the furrowed creases of the Iron Lord's face. "I've lost people as well."

"Not nearly as many as you will," Saladin answered.

Zavala sighed and placed his arms behind his back. "I am sorry I have been such a disappointment to you."

Saladin shook his head and stood from the table. "You've exceeded all my hopes, Zavala. But you are still not what you could be, and not what we need."

Zavala stood as well. "Be that as it may, I am still your commander, and what I need is your obedience."

Saladin smirked. "You know better than to try to tame a wolf, old friend."

Zavala stood, unmoving, and held his gaze on the Iron Lord.

Saladin sighed. "We both oppose Caiatl's terms. That should be enough." He turned to leave, but the commander placed a hand on his shoulder.

"It is good to see you outside the confines of duty," Zavala said. Saladin nodded, then paced away.

Zavala sat again at the table, studying the result of the game as the Iron Lord's footsteps faded.

<|endoftext|>

The Messenger

Aunor was in a sour mood when she transmatted into Ikora's personal library. She hated visiting the Tower. Even in a room without doors, well away from the dank Annex basement, she could still smell the Drifter's sulfuric odor. How the others could stand it, she had no idea. 

Her irritation was softened slightly, when Ikora looked up from her writing with a smile. "I'm glad to see you," she said. 

"Interesting choice of words. I thought I was being summoned for a 'matter of grave importance. '" 

"'Relieved' may be the better word. There aren't many I can trust with an assignment like this." Ikora gestured towards a seat. Aunor shook her head.

"Is that so?" 

"I mean that as a compliment to you. Not a condemnation of anyone else." 

 "You don't need to butter me up before a bad job, Ikora." 

Ikora sighed, then tapped her datapad. "We've received word of another tainted Guardian in our ranks." 

Within her cloak, Aunor's pad dinged. She took it out, reading as she scrolled. "Disobeying orders, trading Vanguard secrets… Pretty standard. Prolonged and intentional torture?" She looked up questioningly. 

"Fallen civilians fleeing the House of Salvation," Ikora supplied, her voice grave. "According to her fireteam, she wanted to know how Eramis accessed the Darkness. "When they tried to intervene…" she trailed off. 

Aunor looked up sharply. "She tortured her own teammates too?" 

Ikora nodded. Aunor stowed her datapad back in her cloak. "Where's she headed now?" 

"We believe she's still on Europa, trying to access the Darkness on her own." 

"Makes sense. Now that the Vanguard's lifted the ban, she has plausible deniability. As does anyone else who's tempted by that power," she added pointedly. 

"Please don't make me go over this again. The Vanguard—"

"The Vanguard allowed Darkness into the Tower. You let Guardians play with it, so long as they do it under the Drifter's roving eye.  Otherwise, you'll send me after them as punishment." 

"Not punishment," Ikora corrected evenly. "Redemption. You offer them a chance to cooperate first. To make up for their selfish acts and rejoin the side of humanity." 

"And so far, I've had no takers." 

"That doesn't mean that none exist." 

"And this Trestin? You think she'll be lucky number…  how many are we up to now? At this point, the only chance I'm giving them is the chance to kill me first." 

"Enough." Ikora's eyes flashed. "I won't pretend to be optimistic about the outcome of this case. Or any future ones. But there's no guarantee that all who are touched are forever tainted. Until that's proven otherwise, your orders remain the same. Is that clear?" 

Aunor stared at her, jaw clenched. "Future cases?"  She shook her head. "Never mind. I'm sure you'll tell me after they've wreaked havoc somewhere." 

"You don't have to do this, if you don't want to. I'd understand." 

Aunor swatted the concern away. "I stand by my promise," she said.  Then, in a flash of blue, she was gone.

<|endoftext|>

Gridskipper

He heard something and snapped awake. There it was again: the skittering of clawed feet above him. In a moment, he had grabbed the Pulse Rifle from near the door and was outside.

He saw nothing but the lip of the tar paper roof against the undulating night sky. That didn't mean anything—they could turn invisible. Everyone knew that. They could just be standing there, one or two, or a dozen, staring down at him.

He looked for shimmering outlines, but his vision was filled by the swaying grid of the dark purple night. He squinted as a ripple rolled high overhead, and the grid seemed to move closer, like an enormous sheet settling over the City.

A wave of pressure pushed down, building in his sinuses. He pressed a hand to his eyes. A deep thrum filled his head, and he heard their claws on the walls all around him, their hissing laughter.

He turned toward the street, weapon raised. He felt his heart thudding in his chest and sweat beading on his back.

Another noise: someone pounding on glass behind him.

He spun and one of them was in his house, looking out at him through the window. His sweaty fingers fumbled to turn the safety off as it opened its mouth—

"Dad," the Fallen shouted, "you're standing in the garden!"

He looked down dumbly. Cherry tomatoes were crushed beneath his bare feet.

His son yelled again, no longer a Fallen, merely irritated and half asleep. "Come back inside!"

Hands shaking, he stepped out of the garden. He fought the urge to look into the sky as he walked back to the house.

<|endoftext|>

Piece of Mind

Mithrax squeezed through the tight Bazaar alleyway. Visiting the Tower made him feel out of place, like a creature moving through a world designed for smaller beings—which, he supposed, he was.

As he reached back to pull his Ether tubes free from a snag in the jagged brickwork, he felt something collide sharply with his elbow. 

His mind was suddenly filled with a flare of hot bitterness—a burst of bladed anger.

Mithrax looked down to see a Psion, clothed in Empress Caiatl's colors, wincing in pain and rubbing its eye. 

"Forgive me," Mithrax said graciously. "You must be the one assisting the Guardians against the Hive." 

The Psion looked up at him, then ducked its head in apology. The vision immediately dissolved from Mithrax's mind. 

"I am Misraaks, Kell of House Light," he said, putting a hand to his chest. 

The Psion paused, then gestured to its chest and Mithrax's head. It held its hand open as if waiting for a response.

Mithrax nodded his assent, and into his mind was placed a scattering of orange cubes, a spiraling helix of inky fins, and the sensation of biting through an unripe fruit.

The vision faded. "That is your true name?" Mithrax asked. The Psion gave a short bow. 

Mithrax smiled. "I understand why Guardians simply call you 'the Psion,'" he said. 

A swarm of smooth yellow planes fluttered through Mithrax's mind: laughter. 

Mithrax stepped to the side, and the Psion moved past him. As it did so, there was a final vision: a wink of warm, cheerful brightness, fading but promising to return. 

"To you, as well," Mithrax called, and the Psion vanished around the corner.

<|endoftext|>

Jurassic Green

Foreword to "The Book of the Forgotten"

Sol is filled with monsters. More than I imagined could possibly exist in one system. So far, the list includes:

Alien robots that bend time, blot out the sun, and drive people crazy.

Floating witches that birth squirming hordes of cannibals, all driven to murder by parasitic worms.

Armored walrus people who conquer planets and subjugate whole races.

Undead mobs of rotting alien corpses, animated by Dark Ether.

Clans of interstellar insects trying to steal a small planetoid for its energy signature.

And most recently, ominous triangular ships of unknown origin that send spooky telepathic messages.

But in my opinion, the most bizarre monsters in all of Sol are a gang of heavily armed zombies, made eternal by pint-sized cybernetic constructs (some of whom are lovers of folk tales).

Sol may be a strange and crowded place, but the next time someone tells you of a bizarre new monster (like a shadowy clique of pumpkin-headed phantoms), think twice before you dismiss them. That monster may be your new neighbor.

Happy Festival of the Lost!

—Glint, the smallest monster

<|endoftext|>

Eternal Blazon

It was a warm night in the Last City. A gentle breeze rolled through the streets, ruffling treetops and bearing choirs of cicadas. On a night like this, even the most chronic of insomniacs could achieve a sound, dreamless sleep—all they'd need do was lay their head down and breathe deep. 

Except for Zavala. He preferred to spend a night like this walking through the gardens.  "Nothing better than a midnight stroll. Right, Targe ?" he remarked quietly to the Ghost floating over his shoulder. 

Targe bobbed silently in the breeze. In his opinion, a full eight hours of sleep would've been vastly better, especially for the beleaguered commander. But, while some Ghosts felt giving advice was part of their calling, he did not. So he said nothing. 

His disapproval was felt regardless. "I know, I should rest." Zavala closed his eyes and inhaled. The night air was fragrant with fresh blooms and petrichor. "But I'd argue this counts." 

Targe remembered when this acre was first dug out for planting, back when the City was little more than a sprawl of encampments. They had just returned from a grueling patrol, but as soon as Zavala saw the others digging, he dropped his weapons and picked up a shovel. 

Saladin gave him a long lecture about the importance of rest and recovery, but he just stubbornly kept on digging. "I'd like to sow some life for once," he said. Targe could still picture the look on the Iron Lord's face in that moment, flickering between pride and exasperation. It was in that moment that he, too, picked up a shovel. 

"We've come so far," Zavala murmured in the present. "Sacrificed so much." 

Again, Targe said nothing. They had indeed. As they passed under a tree, the cicadas tucked in its branches went still. For a few seconds, the only noise was the crunch of boots on the gravel path. Once Zavala and Targe were a few yards away, the cicadas resumed their melodic thrumming. 

"It amazes me sometimes that I've survived this long." Zavala looked up, his pupils reflecting the bone-white orb of the Traveler above. "All thanks to you." His words came out so soft, and it was hard to tell if they were an accusation or gratitude. 

Targe tilted up towards the Traveler too. What could he say? It was his duty to resurrect his Guardian. More than that, it was his purpose. Not one he had chosen, but then again, neither had Zavala. 

A silence fell, deeper than before. Ghost and Guardian stared up at the opaque moon, their thoughts synchronized around the same question: 

"Are you watching over us? Or are we on our own?"

<|endoftext|>

Pleiades Corrector

Supplemental report [FWC-2298j; Blackout]

The Endless Night. What is it? What does it do? We may not have all the answers, but here's what we know:

Remote scans of the "Endless Night" either failed to return data or returned contradictory data; this behavior suggested an emittance of electromagnetic disruption, which indicated that this is more than a simulation projected over the City. Confirmation of this disruption has occurred as every probe sent into the clouds, even shielded ones, experienced acute electrical overload within seconds.

Now having confirmed the existence of the EM field, we have reached a new hypothesis in our reevaluation of our initial scans. We believe that we are not, in fact, receiving contradictory data… but a scrambling of our own scans, rewritten with new information.

These scans are subsequently being bounced back to us and are infiltrating our systems via rooting programs masquerading as collected data. Anyone wondering how they've managed to shut down our power distribution and water purification facilities without firing a shot needs look no further. They set a trap, and we sprang it. This information absolutely must be aired to the rest of the Consensus.

Some of my colleagues believe the actual "night" visualization is meant to be a means of psychological warfare. Whether that is intended or not is unclear, though there has undoubtedly been an effect on the population, as reports of illness and sleep loss have spiked considerably.

I've moved to cease all data collection, but I have repeatedly been overridden by higher clearances. I must, again, recommend that we sever all connections and terminate any data collection sweeps. We're digging our own graves, otherwise.

Whatever executive still has that uplink running, knock it off. You're playing with fire here.

—FWC R&D Head, Arsha Saad

<|endoftext|>

Aisha's Embrace

She has been here before.

Pale whisps of clouds swirl over pine trees the color of blackened emerald. No birds sing here; only the cold wind whistles through the tree branches. Flares of atomic fire bloom in the woods and lick against smoldering bark. There is poison in the ground, violence in the air. Screams, both human and inhuman, erupt and echo out into the gloom.

She has been here before.

Two dozen Hive Thrall erupt from the mouth of a cave, shimmering and opalescent like mollusk corpses. They scramble through the dark, shrieking cries of death and birth. Shayura stands, sword of fire held fast, screaming against the crashing tide of chitin and bone.

She has been here before.

Burning embers of Thrall rain around her, but with each dispatched wave of necrotic soldiers, their numbers seem to double. They press forward, inching her closer and closer to the crumbling ravine. Shayura knows that the only way out is through. Wings of flame roar off her back, leaving a trail of rippling heat and charred Thrall in her wake.

She has been here before.

The Thrall finally recede, but the towering Knight that strides through their parted ranks is an escalation, not a victory. Her sword clashes with the Knight's shield, shattering it in a single blow before tearing through the Knight's arm and sinking her blade into its chest.

She has been here before.

She can feel her Light ebbing and wastes no time splitting the Knight in half and separating head from body. Shayura exhales with relief, but with her next breath comes a blinding flash of light. It manifests above the Knight. Her vision swims, her mind reels; the shape is at once familiar and alien—a Ghost. Shayura sees the Hive Knight reborn, reconstructed, as a Guardian would be.

She has been here before. But not like this.

Deep panic builds in her chest. This is no Hive death ritual; this is not Titan. She runs from the Knight's next swing and slips into the reach of Thrall that tear at her armor. Mustering the last of her Solar energy, Shayura calls up a cyclonic pillar of flame that twists up into the sky and consumes the Knight.

…not like this.

The revenant Knight collapses in the flames, and its Ghost manifests again. Shayura leaps forward and drives her sword through, pinning the screaming Ghost to the forest floor. Her Solar aura flickers and fades; smoke and steam billow from her back and shoulders.

"NOT LIKE THIS!"

"Shay!"

Shayura's breath catches, her mind jostled. She feels the soft grass beneath her and sees the flower-dappled park that surrounds her, all sitting beneath the shadow of the Traveler in the heart of the City. Her SMG lies on the ground at her side. Tears shine below exhausted eyes, dark hair in a tangle matted to her head.

Aisha kneels in front of her friend as one might before a wild animal. Reed-7 stands at her back in abject silence, hand over his mouth. City security fans out behind him, their weapons trained on Shayura. 

"Shay?" Aisha pleads this time. She gingerly places her hands on Shayura's cheeks and looks into her eyes, searching for a sign of recognition. Shayura eventually reaches up and touches one of Aisha's hands. She tries to talk, but her words are merely whimpers.

Aisha wraps her arms around Shayura's shoulders and pulls her into an embrace. "It's going to be okay," Aisha whispers into Shayura's hair.

"We're going to get you help," Aisha promises.

Shayura does not trust herself or the world she thought she knew. Light is Dark, Dark is Light. The lines have blurred beyond recognition.

But at least in surrender, there is peace.

<|endoftext|>

Conspirator

Ghaul spent too much time in too close communion with those I had humbled. No good would come of those hushed tones and sidelong glances. Did he think I would not notice? 

I dispatched a spy to follow him. To think that I felt guilt in that moment; one should never doubt their gut when it comes to trust in another.  

I realize now what I should have realized then. As I am like no other, then no other is alone as I. What a curse it is to be a god that loves!

<|endoftext|>

The End

THE RED SHIPS ENTER 
THE AIR IS HEAVY. 
Now, when you move, you can actually FEEL the weight of the world. 
This weight is a gift. 
you finally have our attention

<|endoftext|>

Motion to Compel

look

Her plan is coming together.

A L W A Y S T H E C L E V E R O N E

Always the smug one.

she plays with weighted odds

Odds we weighted.

SHALL WE?

Intervene? No.

not yet

B E P A T I E N T

Wait until the dynasty falls.

<|endoftext|>

Oxygen SR3

Scarves of mist gusted through the Tower bazaar. It was quiet: The civilians had taken shelter hours ago when the rain was coming down in earnest, and most Guardians still awake had congregated in the Courtyard.

Zavala and Ikora sat together on a wooden trellis, legs dangling, soaked to the bone, looking out at the City lights below.

"Aunor leaked about a dozen documents today," Ikora said.

Despite himself, Zavala smiled. "Did she?"

"I managed to redact a few, but. She embedded the rest in your manifests."

"She reminds me a lot of you."

Ikora nodded, then leaned back to look up at the rain as it fell. "Yes. I agree."

Rain beaded on the tip of Zavala's nose. He raised his hand to brush it away, keeping his gaze fixed steadily on the City. "What would you have me do?"

"Nothing. She's mine to manage, and… She's not a child. None of them are, Zavala. We owe them all more than we're giving."

"Yes…" he agreed, then added gently, "But they owe us more than they're giving, too."

Ikora chuckled dryly. "Yes. Of course. The benefit of the doubt. And compassion. But." She squinted against the rain. "Our feelings don't matter right now. We need to be people they want to follow, not people they mistrust and want to fight."

"Respect is mutual," Zavala said, "but I agree." He took a deep breath, looking up at the belly of the Traveler: present but inert. Completely, maddeningly, heartrendingly inert. "We will be better. This will pass."

Ikora closed her eyes.

They were quiet a while.

"I wish Cayde were here," she whispered.

Zavala set his hand on Ikora's knee and swallowed a knot in his throat. "Me, too."

<|endoftext|>

Royal Chase

VanNet/PRXC SCOUT WIDEBAND//:AudCHNL-33295, Public//:LogSkew-859128312785

VGS-6: You still tracking that monster near Saturn? 

PXC-0: Yes. Nil-1 is holding position directly over Titan. On mark… uh, 27 hours. Rotating off in three. 

VGS-6: Long shift. You Praxic boys are cold. Regret your induction yet? 

PXC-0: It's not a problem. We don't sleep. 

VGS-6: Right. 

[Dead air.] 

VGS-6: I mean, you do sleep. 

PXC-0: Negative. 

VGS-6: Come on. I've met Guardians before. 

PXC-0: We do not. 

VGS-6: Don't make me call in the Gunny. 

PXC-0: Your Gunny would know better than to argue with the Order. 

VGS-6: Okay, listen JEFF. You're not THE Order. I don't give a sh—

PXC-0: Quiet. Energy rev spooling from the target…

VGS-6: What? You said it was basically dead. 

PXC-0: Basically… Verim, record this. Establish direct feed uplink with NavTAC. 

PXC-0-Verim: Uplink connectivity is spotty. Gravitational anomaly detec—no it's collaps—

[Inaudible. Interference.] 

[Dead air. Silent minutes.] 

PXC-0: (Breathing heavily) NavTAC, return. Link reads as established… NavTAC, return. Telemetric positioning pins us on the opposing side of Saturn. Displacement reads as roughly 470,000km. Titan is… Titan is gone. This doesn't make any sense. 

PXC-0: NavTAC. Vanguard Recon, come in. Tower actual? Harriet, are you out there? 

[Signal Redacted] 

[Transmission Redacted]

<|endoftext|>

Peace by Consensus

Consensus Meeting 3230.01
Zavala: "I call this meeting of the Consensus to order."
New Monarchy: "Only the Speaker can call us to order."
Cayde-6: "Oh, really? Well, guess we can't have meetings anymore. If you'll excuse me—"
Ikora Rey: "Sit down, Cayde. We're having this discussion, bylaws be damned."
FWC: "What do the bylaws say about choosing a new Speaker?"
Z: "Nothing."
IR: "Then we'll write new ones."
DO: "Knowing us, that's going to take time. A lot of time."
Z: "In the meanwhile, we will have to move forward without a Speaker."
NM: "Who will take his place? You?"
Z: "None of us will take the Speaker's place. And all of us will. We must find our own consensus now."

<|endoftext|>

Last of the Legion

Ghaul is lost. He stood before the Light and met a warrior's end. The Red Legion suffered a great blow today, and in time we shall mourn the Dominus. 

There is still much to be done. Our forces have been routed, but the Cabal are not so easily deterred. We need arms, supplies, and most importantly, we need a ship. We do not lay in defeat like the wretched Eliksni. No, I will not return to Torobatl in defeat. 

The Dominus was a strong leader, but the Red Legion had more to offer than simply overwhelming force. The Guardian presence on Mercury and Mars is soft at this time. We can strike quickly and restock our arsenals. They think us weak and insipid. I will show them the might of the Red Legion, and they shall not forget.

<|endoftext|>

Farewell

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-221

HG01: —took heavy fire! Jax and Klaid are gone! Cabal dropped out of nowhere; they must have our transponder signals!

VSYS: Vanguard ship, ID code is scrambled. Please reauthenticate.

HG01: We need to make an emergency landing at Venus FOB!

VSYS: Please reauthenticate.

HG01: Five times! I tried reauth five times! Look, I have a damaged jumpship, and I'm escorting a frigate of civilians! Clear me for landing!

VSYS: Clearance denied. Venus Forward Operating Base automated orbital defenses now online. 

HG01: No! Turn 'em off!

VSYS: I cannot comply.

HG01: Worthless piece of scrap!

HG01: New plan! Captain Hennek, you still with us?

CC03: Reading you loud and clear, Guardian! What's the plan? Those Cabal cruisers are right behind us!

HG01: I'm sending you new coordinates! We'll make a few short jumps; try to lose them in the Re—

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-236

HG01: —still work. Ah, see! Green blinking light means power.

UNK1: This ship will never fly again, Human. What value is there in a flight recorder?

HG01: You never write a journal before?

UNK1: I have. But I fail to see the value.

HG01: Well my options here are to talk to you—and no offense, but you Reefborn are an acquired taste—or talk to that one, and I don't speak Fallen.

UNK2: [untranslated]

HG01: You see what I mean?

UNK1: So you would rather… talk to yourself.

HG01: Now you got it. C'mon, help me disconnect the primary power coupli—

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-238

HG01: Been trying to figure out how to word this. Don't know if I'll ever make it back to Earth. The thought of not saying goodbye to you keeps eating away at me.

HG01: I don't know if you're safe. Don't know if you made it out of the City. 

HG01: Comms are down, Cabal control the channels. Been trying to get the Awoken to help, but after the whoopin' Oryx gave them, they're reluctant to get between us and the Cabal.

HG01: I miss you so damn much.

HG01: If we see each other again, none of this will matter. I'll complain about Reef cuisine, you'll criticize all my tactical choices, and I'll fall asleep in your arms… None of this'll matter.

HG01: But in case it does, I just—I want you to know I love you. That, even out here beyond the light, I never forgot you.

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-239

HG01: We got the old Dead Orbit ship set up as a shelter. Atmospheric controls are still working, heat, radiation shielding seems good. The friendly Fallen out here are real helpful. I thought they were slaves of the Awoken at first, but it's… not like that at all.

HG01: Captain Hennek finally succumbed to his injuries. I was with him when he went. Last thing he said to me was, "I guess, right now, we're not all that different."

HG01: [long silence]

HG01: I wish you were here.

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-240

[ENTRY DELETED]

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-241

[ENTRY DELETED]

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-242

HG01: A Fallen named Kesk is helping me hardwire a linguistic modulator his people built into the flight recorder. Should translate their speech back to me in something I can understand, and then I can run it through the vocal processing heuristics onboard my jumpship to speak back.

HG01: Faster than learning a language I don't have the mouth parts to speak.

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-243

HG01: Today was our anniversary. I hope we were looking at the same stars.

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-244

HG01: Traveler.

UNK2: <<Great Machine.>>

HG01: Huh. Okay.

HG01: Family.

UNK2: <<Ketch.>>

HG01: Okay, that's where we're hitting a wall. Can we try some root words? We need to build the Fallen database.

UNK2: <<Eliksni.>>

HG01: Right, sorry. Eliksni.

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-245

[ENTRY DELETED]

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-246

HG01: I had this dream… like a memory of a memory, you know? But I swear, I heard your laugh when I woke up.

HG01: Being Lightless is hard, but it's… it's these little phantom pains that are the hardest.

HG01: I feel like my whole life is a phantom limb. 

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-247

HG01: Light.

UNK2: Light.

HG01: I'm not sure why I'm surprised by that.

UNK2: <<We are all forged in the Light. It is what we lost.>>

HG01: Yeah.

UNK2: <<We are not all that different now, you and I.>>

HG01: W-why do you say that?

UNK2: <<When we live, it is in the shadow of the life we once had. When we die, it is the end of our story.>>

[Long Silence]

HG01: That… makes sense.

UNK2: <<Many things do, when you take the time to stop and listen. To hear.>>

[Long Silence]

HG01: Dig.

UNK2: <<Dig.>>

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-248

[ENTRY DELETED]

FLIGHT_RECORDER_LOG // VG777-T // L-250

HG01: I'm heading back to Earth. The locals agreed to take care of the civilians.

HG01: I don't know if I'll find you, but I can't sit here anymore.

HG01: If I find you, you'll never hear this. But if I don't, and I live… Being here has opened my eyes to a lot of things and I just—I can't fight like this anymore. Not without you. There's an enclave out past the Jovians; pacifists. You'll find me there.

HG01: Kesk will have my Sidearm. I told him to give it to you if you come looking for me. Or… if he finds out you're—gone—to send it to the Vanguard.

HG01: I won't need it anymore.

HG01: All I need is you.

// End Logs

<|endoftext|>

Brass Attacks

Banshee-44 hefted the Sidearm, testing its balance in his metal grip. Nice piece of work. He pulled the slide and peered through the ejection port. The barrel was true and the spring assembly was smooth as silicone. The brass plating and custom Picatinny rail were classy touches too. Just his speed. 

Construction Redjacks had pulled the pistol from the build site of the H.E.L.M. Some of their deeper combat coding must have kicked in, because they brought the piece to him directly. Banshee wondered how long this beauty had been stuck in the rubble. Hell, maybe it was buried there intentionally. Evidence of some evil deed from way back. 

Well, any dirt on this hardware was long forgotten by now. Banshee set to disassembling the gun, his hands working faster than the eye could follow. In just a few seconds, he had it in constituent parts on his bench. He scanned the surface of each component, looking for the maker's mark. 

There! A tiny inscription on the trigger pin. Almost imperceptible, even to his digital eyes. He examined the pin through his loupe. The mark read "B-44.4.C-6". Seemed like a part number. Guess he'd never know who crafted it. 

It really was a helluva piece, though. Whoever made it had a real eye for the game. 

Wherever you came from, he thought, it's time to find you a new home.

<|endoftext|>

Drang

v_v_v_victory: WE GOT ACCEPTED!!! 
v_v_v_victory: EXODUS BLACK HERE WE COME
 Waelcyrge: haha…
v_v_v_victory: I'M SO EXCITED AAAAAAAAAH 
v_v_v_victory: SIGRUN!!!!!!!! 
v_v_v_victory: we are LITERALYL going to make history 
v_v_v_victory: like babies are going to be sitting in school on a WHOLE NEW PLANET 
v_v_v_victory: and the teacher will be like 'LISTEN UP you little idoiots' 
v_v_v_victory: 'some brave-ass people voluntered to leave EVERYBODY THEY KNEW + LOVED so that YOU could walk around on this weird planet' 
v_v_v_victory: haha 
v_v_v_victory: youre pumped too right? 
v_v_v_victory: i know youre pumped 
 v_v_v_victory: sig? 
Waelcyrge signed off at 07:46:45 UTC-8. 
 v_v_v_victory: gd it 
Your message 'gd it' could not be delivered because the recipient is offline.

<|endoftext|>

A Swift Verdict

we were young once 
YOU WENT MAD TRYING TO UNDERSTAND 
W E W E N T M A D T R Y I N G T O S P E A K 
This doesn't matter. 
when you are ready we will take it from you 
AND YOU WILL BE GLAD OF IT

<|endoftext|>

Peacebond

Each passing moment is marked by the click of an analog timer on the wall.

When the pressure gauge reaches 100 percent, the timer releases a final click and the airlock doors grind open in the hangar bay. Lord Saladin tucks his helmet under his arm and marches inside. He is met by banners of blue and white ringing the walls, each bearing the crest of the Caiatl's empire, the Cabal Ascendancy.

A pair of blue-armored Phalanxes greet Saladin at the entrance with raised rifles, but the Iron Lord strides past without a glance. The Phalanxes slowly lower their rifles and turn toward a heavily armored Valus approaching from the other side of the hangar.

"You come alone?" Valus Or'ohk  bellows, reaching up to wrench his helmet off. A pressurized hiss escapes as the environmental seal breaks. "You are bold, Commander."

"Lord," Saladin corrects as he closes the distance between them. "My title is Iron Lord."

Valus Or'ohk comes to a stop, looking down at Saladin with narrowed eyes. "Iron Lord Saladin," he tests the unfamiliar words with gnashing teeth. "You are bold."

"I'm not here for flattery or your formal processions," Saladin rebukes, now within arm's reach of the Valus. Saladin looks up at him, unafraid, undeterred. "How do you want to do this?"

The Valus locks eyes with Saladin, then snorts loudly and rumbles with appreciative laughter. "I have a war room," he says in a more conversational tone. No more boasts, no more chest-beating. "We are tracking the movements of Hive ships in the vicinity of the Mars anomaly."

"There have been developments in the Dreaming City regarding Xivu Arath you should be aware of," Saladin replies. "Lead the way."

<|endoftext|>

The Vision

Director Lakshmi-2,

Enough is enough. I know what you're using, and I'll be speaking with the Vanguard. The fact that you think you can interpret what has driven dozens to insanity doesn't give me a good deal of confidence in your decision-making abilities, and I can't keep my concerns internal any longer. We don't need another Sundaresh in the upper ranks.

I don't care if you saw the Red War before it happened. What would you say of the several other unfruitful predictions you conveniently ignore now?

I have listened to your speeches and read your many messages calling for support. I understand you believe the future is at stake, and we are supposed to do something about that. Fear over the Fallen is not the future this organization was meant to combat. Your paranoia won't change my mind.

My children were harassed in the streets today for daring to bring food to the Eliksni Quarter. They came home in tears, and I wonder how long until it becomes worse. I won't be a part of spreading that fear. I won't participate in splitting this City and turning it against itself. I'm well aware of the dangers posed by Fallen Houses, but the City remains strong because we stand together.

You're a student of history. You know how the Iron Lords converted Warlords into dutiful servants of the Light. Lord Shaxx alone should speak to the value of that effort. If a Fallen House wants to stand with us against their own—just like the Warlords of old, just like Fallen in the Reef did—who are you to tell them no?

Armies, we can keep out. The Guardians will hold the wall. That danger is nowhere close to the death from within that you are stoking. If it all falls apart, just remember Mithrax didn't fire the first shot. You did.

Consider this my resignation,

Novarro

<|endoftext|>

Adjudicator

You sought us out in the deep black. 
meditation wasn't enough for you 
GO AND TOUCH THE HISSING SILENCE 
Do not fear being submerged. 
Not many ships go that far, these days. 
you went through hell to get one, and then again to get out there 
YOU FOUND THE DEVIL HIMSELF. 
A G O L D E N S N A K E A D E V I L W H O P O S E S A S G O D 
No more a god than you. 
YOU DIDN'T FIGHT HIM. 
Y O U T U R N E D A R O U N D S M A R T 
Others did. 
while we watched

<|endoftext|>

Motion to Suppress

A TRESPASSER

you are not welcome here

HOW DID YOU FIND US?

"She sent me."

You are not your queen.

A PUPPET

defined by scars

We have no need of you.

WE HAVE OUR OWN PUPPETS

L E T  H E R  S P E A K

"I came to discuss the future."

<|endoftext|>

MIDA Mini-Tool

2472/11/17 — 4.9°S 0°E 
AUDIO ONLY 
Strauss is gone. Whole sky alight as his ship set off. I might be the last MIDA survivor on Mars. The gun detected teleports yesterday and I had to move camp. Cannot shake the fear that they will send battleroids; even this AI marvel couldn't save me. 

Shot the ice this morning. The gun fired a thermal round and then a pellet of water purifier. Came out pure and sweet. Marvelous. I've been reading the gun's Encyclopedia Arcana. All about the crash that became Strauss's obsession and hope. "Metastability in the salvaged construct!" Ha ha! Let's hope our ideals too can pass through grief, fury, and envy into a new freedom elsewhere. 

Wonder if the gun heard me when I asked to go somewhere better. Wonder why it led me here. Going to follow its compass tonight. Down below.

<|endoftext|>

Mob Justice

I never thought of my palace as the true court. The only throne that mattered to me looked down upon the public commons. From that seat, there was no barrier between me and the glorious, adoring mob. I was their father; they were my children. 

It was there that I brought the corrupt to suffer the people's justice. How they cried as I threw their riches to the crowd. It amused me to see the dawning of realization in their eyes—there would be no safety for them, as there had been no safety for those they had made to suffer. 

One by one, I tossed those weeping fools to the people. The mob let out a great cry of joy and stripped them of their robes, tore the jewelry from their bodies.

<|endoftext|>

The Recluse

An arrow whined out of nowhere. It drove through his shoulder, penetrating his armor as though it were paper, not plasteel.

No enemies on his tracker. So then where—

The second arrow hit harder than the first: straight through his other shoulder, skewering the joint. He twisted his head, saw the arrowhead protruding through his pauldron, chuckled humorlessly, looked through the trees. The asteroids of the Reef did not afford many hiding places, even those which had been terraformed to support plants and animals, so the shooter had to be—

The third arrow penetrated his thigh. He laughed aloud.

"Transmat?" his Ghost suggested, a quiet voice in his mind.

"No. They started this. I'll finish it."

Unable to lift any of his own weapons in defense, concerned that he might compromise his Ghost if he made any attempt to heal himself with the Light, Lord Shaxx began to limp toward the shooter's likeliest vantage.

This was the work of a ballista, he supposed. Dark Age weaponry. Nothing else could hit so hard.

As he tottered along, an Awoken woman in the near distance seemed to rise from the forest floor. She cast aside her camouflage and stood straight. He stopped to gawk. She was as tall as he was, if not taller. Her bow (just a bow! an ordinary bow!) was certainly taller.

"You're trespassing on Awoken territory, Guardian," she called to him. "Declare yourself."

"Who are you?" he asked, astounded.

"I am the Queen's Wrath. Declare yourself. I will not ask again." She raised her bow, drawing it to its full capacity.

He watched in amazement. It was just a bow. And she was just an ordinary Awoken woman! And yet! "You are a tempest," he replied humbly.

In the next instant, she killed him.

It was the start of a beautiful friendship.

<|endoftext|>

Friction Fire

"What do you mean, 'lost'?" The Spider's tone is filled with ill-concealed fury. He leans forward in his throne. "Their Pikes were equipped with trackers. Why didn't you chase them down?"

Brivi kneels in front of Spider, all four of his palms on the ground. "Their Pikes remained. They are outside. Just the crew was gone. And the crates." He does his best to appear compliant by tamping down his quills. 

"Gone. In the middle of the Reef. On foot. With over a million Glimmer in weapons. Something about this doesn't add up." Spider motions to Avrok and Ahrrha, who advance on Brivi with Molten Welders raised. "But we'll get to the truth of things soon enough." 

Brivi begins to panic. "Please, Baron Spider. If it were not truth, I would not come back." Avrok prepares to melt off one of Brivi's upper arms, and looks to the Spider for the order. 

Before Spider can speak, Crow steps forward from the wings. "If I may, my Baron…" 

Spider gestures for Avrok to hold, and turns his attention to the Lightbearer. "What is it? If you don't have the stomach for my discipline, you have permission to leave the room." 

"It's not that, Baron. It's just that Brivi's account is consistent with several other instances Glint and I have seen out on the Reef. We think it has something to do with those Hive constructs." Crow spares a sympathetic glance toward the prostrate Brivi. "Besides, what Brivi says is true. If he were in on the theft, he wouldn't have come back. If you'll just allow Glint and me to retrace his steps, we may find out what happened to the road crew. Who knows… we may even retrieve the weapons." 

Spider relaxes in his throne. "Very well, Crow. Go find my weapons. And if you locate the road crew, you know what to do." 

"Yes, Baron." Crow turn on a heel and strides from the room. 

Behind him, he hears the Spider growl, "Avork, you may proceed."

<|endoftext|>

Extraordinary Rendition

[Report by VanNet encrypted router]

My friend and first, I know Her Royal Tuskiness is not my assignment, but I couldn't help but catch the following exchange on my latest trip to you-know-where. If anything, it's good for a laugh. Don't let our favorite Praxic wear you down to a nub. If she gives you grief, you give her a swift kick from me. —C.Y.

[Attached transcript.]



RECORD: 30.10.15.C.Y.Report
IDENTITIES: Advisor Taurun [A.T.], Empress Caiatl [E.C.], The Spider [T.S.]
FILE//HID_CLASSIFIED//AUDIO

[A.T.] The connection is made. Let the imperial record show that, on this day, the great Empress Caiatl, ascendant of Calus, slayer of Umun'arath, convened via radio message with the Spider of the Tangled Shore, formerly of the House of—

[E.C.] Enough, Taurun. The scribes can add whatever flourishes they wish after the fact.

[T.S.] Yes, let's not waste time. I know you have more important matters to attend to. Matters that I would be happy to help with… in my own small way.

[E.C.] I would no sooner seek aid from you than a war beast would from a bog-tick. Do you know how many thieves I've had to excise from my ranks? They debased themselves. Crawling about our proving grounds. Refashioning battle-trash into weapons. All because you tempted them with a flash of Glimmer.

[T.S.] Ha! Me? Tempt them? It's all I can do to keep them from flooding the market.

[E.C.] This is not my first time dealing with war profiteers, insect. Though, if I squash you thoroughly enough, it may be my last.

[T.S.] And here I thought I was doing you a charity, promoting Cabal entrepreneurship. I was told the empire was low on funds.

[E.C.] Is that so?

[T.S.] Your Majesty, I don't know what advice you've been getting from your imperial hangers-on, but—

[A.T.] How dare you—

[E.C.] Quiet.

[T.S.] But things are different here in the Sol system. Smash and conquer—like so many traditions of old Torobatl—won't get you far. Ghaul found that out the hard way. The remnants of his Red Legion have learned to adapt.

[T.S.] Let me know if you'd like to do the same. I'd even go against my own custom and consider a payment plan.

[E.C.] How generous. But it seems I have no need. As you've revealed, I have untapped resources at my disposal.

[T.S.] Whichever ones have survived your purge, yes. But weapons are not my most valuable wares, not by a long shot. If you're anything like your father, you'll be far more interested in the information I have to offer.

[E.C.] Send your coordinates. We can discuss face-to-face. But tread lightly. I've yet to decide whether you're worth my mercy.

[T.S.] Oh, I'm honored to host Her Imperial Highness on my humble Shore. It's no palatial estate, but we insects are just happy to have a place to call home.

[End transmission.]

<|endoftext|>

Multimach CCX

Lord Saladin sat at a small table, examining a holographic display of Cabal troop movements throughout the system. He was crammed into the corner of his once-spacious quarters, made small over the years by shelves full of ancient weaponry, trophies, dated tactical reports, and dusty gear mods. Like all old men, he told himself that the relics might prove useful again one day, but deep down, he recognized the clutter for what it was: fading nostalgia. 

A firm knock on the door roused his attention. He put his hand on his Sidearm and peered through the viewing port. It was Ikora, holding a brown paper sack. The Iron Lord snorted and opened the door. 

"Thought you might be hungry." Ikora held up the sack. "Is Thai okay?" 

Lord Saladin ushered her in. "It's all the same to me." 

The Warlock breezed into the room and set about clearing space for the food. Though she said nothing, Saladin could sense her alarm at the state of his dwelling. Her eyes lingered in the mildewed corners. Her nostrils flared at the sour smell of his armor's fur lining. Her fingers traced visible lines in the dust. 

She handed him a bamboo bowl filled with savory noodles. "How are you, Lord Saladin?" Her head tilted with earnest concern. 

"I'll be better once Caiatl is out of the system." The Iron Lord, who could field-strip any weapon in under a minute, was suddenly made clumsy by a pair of disposable chopsticks. The delicate utensils trembled in his massive, weather-beaten hands. 

"Zavala seems confident that you can force her withdrawal." Ikora held her bowl and leaned gracefully against the table, having no place to sit. 

"Zavala's optimism is more dangerous than Caiatl's army," he said and scowled. "But after peace talks fail, we'll drive them out the hard way. We always do." Saladin discarded the chopsticks with a frown and tilted the bowl to his lips, slurping the noodles loudly. 

"Of course. And after that? What will you do?" Ikora fixed him with a gentle gaze. "A vacation, perhaps?" 

Saladin gestured to the tactical hologram. "By the time we deal with the Cabal, it'll be on to the next atrocity. Vex, Hive, Taken, Fallen, who knows. It's always something." He eyed Ikora pointedly. "When was the last time you had a vacation?" 

Ikora raised an eyebrow. "Fair point. But you've been at this a lot longer than I have." 

"That's right, I have." Saladin's retort was sharper than intended. He paused before continuing, "I'm happier out in the field. Battle keeps me fresh. Keeps me connected. It's being here at the Tower, staring at these damn reports, listening to all this politicking that makes me tired." 

"And what would you do if we won?" Ikora pressed her point. "What if we destroyed the Black Fleet tomorrow, and there were no more battles to fight. What would you do then?" 

Saladin scoffed at the Warlock's nonsense. "Well, in that case… I suppose I'd take a vacation." 

The two warriors eyed each other in stony silence, before breaking out in relieved chuckles. 

The moment of levity briefly softened the Iron Lord. "Don't worry, Ikora. I'm fine." 

The Warlock's eyebrow arched as she surveyed the surrounding mess. 

Saladin held firm under her scrutiny for a moment, before relenting with an exasperated sigh. "If it'll make you feel better," he grumbled, "I'll get some eager New Lights in here to clean up a bit." 

"It would, thank you." Ikora's eyebrows knitted in concern. "You know, with Zavala stretched so thin, and without a Hunter Vanguard, I worry about our readiness. You know what's coming. We need the Iron Lords now more than ever." 

Saladin's eyes drifted back to the tactical display. "I know it, young pup. I'll always be here when you need me."

<|endoftext|>

Borrowed Time

The Drifter smelled trouble the moment he entered the bar. His first instinct was to turn around and leave, but he noticed the hooded figure standing nervously nearby, conspicuously inconspicuous.

Their hooded cloak was pulled low over their face, but they leaned to the side, intent on catching every angry shout from the crowd of locals in the corner.

"Tell what's-his-name to take it easy," Drifter grumbled as he walked by. "I'll handle this."

"Take it easy," parroted a polite voice from somewhere under the figure's cloak.

"I heard him," sighed the figure, but there was relief in his voice.

As Drifter pushed into the crowd, he noted who was armed, who was shouting, and who was doing both. Most seemed to fit into the final category. He smiled; history had taught him the quiet ones were always the most dangerous.

He reached the center of the tight knot and found three Eliksni sitting at a table, trying to ignore the crowd around them. Undaunted, he pushed his way onto the chair arm of the biggest Eliksni like a feral cat. The Eliksni growled, but Drifter tossed Trust into the center of the table with a heavy thud.

Drifter turned toward the crowd. "What's got you fine folk all riled up tonight?"

"Take it you don't listen to the radio much," someone said, and the crowd laughed.

"Places I like tend to have bad reception," Drifter replied. "Tell me what I missed."

The group all spoke at once, a cacophony of accusations.

"Whoa!" cried the Drifter. "Seems like some of you been spendin' too much time starin' at that fake night." He turned to the Eliksni.

"Now somewhere in this commotion, I think I heard shoutin' of missing equipment. So, I've gotta ask," he said. "You fellas been takin' what don't belong to you?"

The big Eliksni spoke. His voice was deep and steady. "We had confusions with your people. Where was self-supply and where was all-supply." He shrugged. "We learned, and we compensated."

Drifter nodded. "Makes sense for settlin' into a new place. Ain't a soul here who hasn't checked their neighbor's toolshed for spare SMG parts."

A voice spoke, "Hey, I'm missing an SMG—" But Drifter held up a hand.

"And I don't wanna hear they caught any blame for the big night. I swear, it's like some folk's brains just wilt in the dark. I know Mithrax is workin' with the Vanguard to figure out this whole Vex thing," he said.

The Eliksni seemed to relax a bit, but Drifter held up a finger. "I do have one question of my own," he said. 

"We've been fightin' for a long time, your folk and mine. That's no secret. Plenty of blood spilled on both sides over the years. But I hear stories some of you fellas from the old days caught the hunger."

The big Eliksni shifted tensely in his seat as the crowd pressed in.

Drifter leaned in closer, his voice gravelly. "Nasty rumor even says you guys chomped on the occasional toddler."

The Eliksni pushed his chair back and lunged to his feet as the crowd gasped. Drifter stood his ground, somehow staring down the Eliksni that was a full meter taller than him.

"Never your young!" the Eliksni boomed. "Never."

Drifter nodded. "But the rest?"

The Eliksni looked at the crowd, then brought his massive head close to Drifter. His voice was steady. "We old ones, we who have been fighting since the beginning… yes. We sometimes took your dead fighters so that we could live."

"It was war," he said, and poked at Drifter's chest with a clawed finger. "And you are made of meat."

Drifter smiled. "I hear you, brother," he said, and looked at the Eliksni's claw. "Hell, you point that thing at me, all I can think is how good it'd taste with garlic butter. Mm-mmm!" He leaned toward the looming creature and ran his tongue over his chapped lips. 

The Eliksni sized up the tiny man, then dropped his shoulders. "But as I say, that was long ago," he said. "We are House Light now, and forever more. We have peace with your people."

Drifter reached up and patted the Eliksni's chest. "That's right," he said, and the Eliksni sat down. "And though it don't erase the bad old days," he said as he turned to the crowd, "that don't mean it's time to bring 'em back."

A dissatisfied grumble rose from the crowd. The fight had gone out of them. 

The Eliksni shrugged. "Misraaks says we are never to eat people again," he said quietly.

Drifter nodded. "Yeah, Zavala tells me the same damn thing."

The Eliksni burst into coughing laughter. The Drifter laughed back, picked up his gun from the table, and waved the crowd away as he pulled over an empty seat.

"Now make room," he said. "These fellas were just about to lose at cards."

<|endoftext|>

Shayura's Wrath

//NS66CE _LOG-C //VENUS-L2 -GEOSYNC//

A powerless Warsat drifts lifelessly through the void of space, traversing the brilliant yellow-green silhouette of Venus.

From the dimly lit cockpit of an NS66 Cloud Errant jumpship in geosynchronous orbit, Venus looks like an unblinking eye staring up from the dark of space, and the Warsat an unwelcome grain of sand within it. A Ghost reduced to little more than a bare sphere of metal, deprived of a shell, hovers in the corner of the cockpit, watching the Warsat track its path across lonely Venus.

"There are no sanctioned Vanguard operations on Venus at present," the Ghost clarifies, pivoting its cold blue eye up to its Guardian. "Why do you think he's down there?"

The Warlock Shayura reclines against her seat, the old leather creaking. Her attention is not on her Ghost, but rather the Human skull sitting in the middle of her command console. Its hollow eye sockets stare back at her.

"It hardly matters why he's there," Shayura indicates listlessly as she examines the skull's cheekbones. Her fingers graze the microfractures—an artifact of Shotgun pellet impact. "All that matters is we find him."

Shayura's Ghost looks away from her and focuses on Venus's soft glow in the dark.

"When will you be returning to Earth?" he asks.

Shayura doesn't vocalize a response, but instead blinks and reorients her glowing-eyed stare on the Ghost. It beeps softly, reconsidering the question.

"Will you?" the Ghost still wonders.

"No," Shayura answers flatly. "There is nothing to go back to. Everyone has either abandoned me or betrayed me. All I have left is the Traveler. And I do not need to be in the City to feel the Light." As she says that, Shayura lifts her hand and calls up a rolling curtain of flame from her palm.

"Praxic Fire guides me," Shayura says with the blaze reflecting in her eyes.

//NS66CE_LOG-D// VENUS-IS -IA //

"You see? Still protected. Valuable."

Hurrying up a shallow set of rubble-strewn steps, a short Eliksni bearing the crest of the House of Light pauses, gazing back at the chrome-armored Guardian moving up the steps behind him. The Eliksni looks the Guardian up and down, then motions to the stark silhouette of a gray concrete-block building rising up from the Venusian overgrowth.

"This ain't the academy proper," the Guardian says on ascent, watching the hazy sky for signs of danger. Moisture clings in glistening beads to his reflective mask; his dark hood shields him from the rest of the elements. "The hell was this place?"

The Eliksni tilts his head to the side, four eyes blinking independently from one another. "Not Human, don't know. But machine inside."

"Why aren't your people bringing it back? Don't you folks get promotions for finding good salvage or something?" the Guardian asks, gesturing to the crumbling building.

The Eliksni once again tilts his head, expression opaque. "You listen to the Spider's sneak-words too eagerly. Come, we have a long walk to—" The Eliksni's words are cut off, garbled in a wet scream as he is perforated by a barrage of Submachine Gun fire.

The Guardian turns, cloak swirling behind him and Hand Cannon at the ready. But it isn't Vex or Fallen descending from the high cliffs—it's a Guardian in black and gold armor gliding to the ground, smoke issuing from the muzzle of her SMG. Shayura's boots lightly touch the leaf-strewn plaza, her eyeless mask fixed on the chrome-clad Hunter.

"He wasn't a combatant!" the Hunter shouts.

Shayura slowly approaches the Guardian. "Did you find him within the hem of Eramis's skirt? Or did you swear yourself to the Darkness after her passing?"

The Hunter backs away, up the stairs, Hand Cannon trained on Shayura. He recognizes her armor for what it is—a reward of the Trials. "I know you…" His voice quavers. "You shouldn't be here. When did the Vanguard let you out?"

"They didn't. I let myself out since they were too busy opening the gates for our enemies," Shayura indicates, motioning with the barrel of her SMG to the dead Eliksni. "But, you know why I'm here ."

"I know you're a few rounds short of a full clip," the Guardian quips back, making a flippant gesture with his Hand Cannon. In that moment of distraction, Shayura shoots him six times in two short bursts.

The Guardian collapses, his gun tumbling down the steps. A moment later, his Ghost materializes, shell flared in anger. "What are you doing?! We—" 

Shayura moves like a lightning bolt, materializing beside the Ghost with an upward flourish of a sword of raw Praxic Fire. The Ghost looses a howling scream of horror as he shatters into a flurry of glittering pieces.

Crumpled on the stairs, the Hunter coughs, his throat damp with blood. Shayura pulls her attention away from the shattered Ghost, training her SMG down at her quarry. "Traitor," she says in a shaky, gasping breath fueled by adrenaline.

The Hunter laughs, gagging on his own blood as he does. "You're no better than the Dredgen ," he says, in pain. Then, even quieter, "…or Malphur ."

"I killed an agent of the Darkness," Shayura says, and the Hunter has no rebuttal this time. He is still.

Bile rises in the back of Shayura's throat.

"They come in many forms."

<|endoftext|>

Stochastic Variable

Lakshmi-2 : faction head : Exo : politician

1 : the Eliksni Quarter : screaming : a crackling portal : treachery : Fallen attack : we're being overrun : where are the Guardians—

2 : the Last City : the Tower in ruins : Fallen scavengers sift the rubble—

3 : the Last City : radioactive dust : Dark growths in the ruins: where is the Traveler : mutated Ghosts—

4 : the Eliksni Quarter : a crackling portal : Asher speaks : Fallen being attacked : Dead Orbit overhead : Saint-14 besieged : FWC surrenders—

5 : the Eliksni Quarter : the Endless Night : a crackling portal : Mithrax firing wildly : the Cult flees : Ikora triumphant—

6 : the Eliksni Quarter : a crackling portal : snipers fire down : blood runs in the gutter : an Ether tank explodes : the Endless Night : Asher speaks : those FWC traitors—

7 : the Botza District : a crackling portal : Fallen flee : FWC banners : Zavala is gone : Mithrax on trial : Lakshmi-2 looks over the crowd—

Lakshmi-2 : head of state : Exo : prophet : savior

<|endoftext|>

Special

Weapons that consume green ammo.

<|endoftext|>

The Emperor's Envy

Calus. That conniving coward, spawn of a war beast. Betrayal was not Ghaul's gravest sin against our former emperor. Calus may proclaim otherwise, but what he truly loathed was Ghaul's ambition. Of Calus's vices—of which there are plenty—envy is his greatest.

The Red Legion came to this wretched system to claim the Traveler, and it was within our grasp. We did it not for personal pride, but for the collective glory of our people—for Torobatl. If Calus possessed an iota of dignity, he would have helped Ghaul against the Guardians instead of gallivanting around the system. This was his moment to redeem himself. Instead, he proved himself the traitor we knew him to be. 

No more. I will take the Leviathan for the Red Legion. The great machine is a weapon of the Cabal, and if Calus holds no allegiance to his people, then he is not worthy to wield it.

<|endoftext|>

Loaded Question

Banshee stares at the paper, then turns it upside down.

"I never said I was an artist," Cayde says over Banshee's shoulder. "This gets at the spirit of it."

Banshee turns the paper around again. "So that's…"

"The laser tracker, yeah."

"Huh." Banshee tilts his head. "And those…"

"Racing stripes."

"…On a fusion rifle."

"We're just—" Cayde throws his arms up. "We're just tossin' out ideas here, pal! Don't shut anything down until you get the whole picture."

"Seems like the picture's the problem."

"OK. Listen—the details aren't important. I just want a good gun that you take out and the fight's already over." He shoots at invisible opponents. "Tsuu-tsuu-tsuu! The end."

Banshee relaxes. He knows good guns.

Cayde clasps Banshee's shoulder. "So is that a yes?"

"Uh-huh."

"Great!" Cayde claps his hands. "Not to rush your genius, but chop-chop, all right? I maybe made a bet with a certain Crucible handler, and I maybe don't have the Glimmer to back it up, so… By the way, you'll do this on an IOU, right?"

 Banshee points to the paper one more time. "Is that…?"

"A bottle opener, yes."

<|endoftext|>

Cartesian Coordinate

All was quiet in the Gulch, save for the occasional chirp of birds and the gentle trickle of the river. It might've been peaceful, Chalco Yong thought as she crept along the bank, if it wasn't so damn eerie. Where were the Cabal and their noisome injection rigs? Where were the thundering Pike gangs? Evidently taking the day off, just when it was most inconvenient.

The Hidden agent crouched, running her hand over the smooth stones cluttering the shore. She was hoping to have good news for her next report. Ikora looked so tired at their last check-in.

No wonder. Even before the Pyramids arrived, it felt like their enemies were multiplying at the same rate their allies were decreasing. Now, with four celestial bodies stolen out of the sky, that trend seemed to be accelerating.

And here she was, following a tenuous lead on the whereabouts of the infamous Light Kell into a dead zone.

She briefly considered turning her radio on and checking in, but then she saw it: the ideal skipping stone, palm shaped and perfectly worn. She picked it up, and with a well-timed flick, sent it spinning across the water. The mirror image of blue sky and pine tree tops rippled once, twice, six times before gravity outweighed momentum, pulling the stone beneath the surface.

Suddenly, a frenetic rustling broke out all around her. The trees quivered as hundreds of birds burst forth, shrieking in alarm as they circled in the sky. Chalco whipped around, rifle at the ready, but there was no one. She slowed her breathing, ears open for the telltale whine of speeding Pikes.

The wispy hairs on the back of her neck stood at attention as the air crackled with electricity. A great rumbling threw Chalco off her feet. She rolled as she hit the ground. The second shockwave arrived while she was facedown—a louder and more definitive thud that caused the rocks to jump up and fall back down with a clatter.

Silence returned. When she lifted her head, all seemed as it had moments ago…

…except for the once-clear sky, now streaked with aurorae of many colors.

Chalco leapt up and ran for the ravine wall. She scaled it, then the nearest pine in a matter of seconds. A risky move considering the possibility of aftershock, but she needed height.

It wasn't until she reached the wavery top branches that she saw it. Cresting over the tree line was the Shard of the Traveler, bleeding polychrome rays. Chalco turned her gaze up, following the arc into the stratosphere. What was happening?

Keeping her eyes fixed on the sky, she flipped on her radio. Immediately, Eris Morn's voice echoed over the Vanguard's public frequency: "This will not be the end. It will be an escalation."

A flash, piercing in its brilliance, lit up the southeastern sky. Chalco braced herself against the tree, squeezing her eyes shut. When she opened them, the sky had returned to clear blue and the Shard had returned to its dim, jagged state.

"Huh," she said aloud to no one.

<|endoftext|>

Null Composure

The five Splicers sat motionless around the small access point that jutted from the dark stone. It pulsed softly, checked and rechecked the permissions that summoned it, and then pushed a data spike solidly into the Vex domain.

The Splicers' consciousnesses spiraled into the network and they immediately sensed the colors changing around them. They were being hunted.

Exclusion fields manifested and chased them, sizzling over the dataplanes as they passed. With a confident laugh, Grainslayer blinked into a silver fractal of unbound Light. The field shattered and split to follow him. 

Chroniclekel spun cool blue towers of mandatory protocols stretching into infinity, then duplicated his trace and sent himself hurtling down all possibilities at once. The domain chugged and hitched as he moved. 

Anomaly focused his Light and caught a bucking ripple of the domain, pushed, and pried a crack into the deep cipher beneath. Collide and Corrosion plunged through.

Corrosion, her Light a scythe, tore fiercely at the smothering strands of replicating data. Collide reached into the blinding heart of the domain, grasping at the decompiling wisps, feeling them retract from his access. 

He centered himself and willed the correct strand to appear before him.

It took all his strength and skill to bend it, to change a one to a zero. 

And as he thought it, it happened.

The access point dissipated, leaving the five Splicers back in the dark stone room. 

They turned to Collide, and when he nodded, they collapsed into joyful, relieved laughter: they had erased the Vex's knowledge of Misraaks's daughter, Eido. 

Collide caught his breath and shrugged with false modesty. "Provoke the eminendum—" he began.

"—perish as the residuum," Corrosion finished for him, before she fell into a fit of laughter once more.

<|endoftext|>

Iota Draconis

Sjari's eyes snapped open as the telltale sizzle of a fusion rifle pierced the miasma of the Ascendant Plane.

The Techeun had been sitting against the same crumbling wall for over two weeks as an unrelenting sludgy river of grey fog flowed past her, the damp air clinging to her skin. The stench of the Taken permeated her nostrils: ozone, gun lubricant, and the sickly sweet burn of soulfire.

The fusion rifle sounded again, closer this time. The shot was met with garbled hisses and return gunfire as the Taken rallied.

After her abandonment, Sjari had tried to move as little as possible so as not to attract the attention of the Taken patrols that periodically swept the area. But the fighting moved closer, now a dozen meters from her hiding place. She quieted her fear and let her mind go lax, encouraging them to overlook her.

She had staved off the prying minds of the Taken Psions by lowering her heart rate and entering a deep meditative trance, sometimes for many hours at a time. But each time she re-emerged into her body, its demands became harder to ignore. She was desperate for food, for water, for anything.

Despite all her training, she was nearing the end of her resolve. Until she heard a voice—a soft, clear whisper in her ear: "Have faith, my Techeuns. You are lost, but not forgotten. Help is on the way."

It seemed that Queen Mara's promise would finally come to pass. There was yet hope.

<|endoftext|>

The Mountaintop

[Fireteam leaders: Do not advance on the Wall. Fall back to the Ridgeback District.]

Shaxx freezes with a Vandal's windpipe in his fist. He waits for Saladin to justify the strategy.

[I repeat: All teams rally at the Ridgeback District. Do NOT advance. The City is lost.]

Shaxx drops the Vandal, then empties the rest of his clip into a Captain. He and his fireteam are running on fumes. The dead, Fallen and Guardian alike, litter the Twilight Gap. 

[Shaxx! Do you copy?]

He risks a look over his shoulder at their home, the place they call the Last Safe City. Not burning. Not yet. Gritting his teeth, he reloads.

[Shaxx, your orders are to retreat.]

He sees a gap in the onslaught of invaders and gestures to the others. "Nkechi! Take Abdi and Truce. Liu Feng, with me! Bray! Cover us!"

[This battlefield is not your stage, Shaxx! This is not about glory!]

His fireteam doesn't hesitate.

[Shaxx! For the final time: Fall! Back!]

As the six of them crest the Wall, Shaxx cuts the feed.

<|endoftext|>

Deafening Whisper

The Acolyte shuffles amidst the carnage of the battlefield. It lopes blithely beneath the impassive statues of Awoken Techeuns, unable to make the abstract connection between the memorials and the stiffening corpses.

It sorts through all materials with equal interest: blood-stained cloth, stone rubble, burnt paper, viscera. It examines an empty bandolier. It chews on a clump of hair. It does not consider the taste.

The Acolyte rolls over the upper half of a corpse bisected by Tulkor's void eyes. Unlike other enemies, this one clutches a thick black tube. Not flesh, but metal. It pauses.

Weapon?

Its grasps the tube and pulls, prying the tube from the enemy's rigid fingers. It remembers hearing the tube roar. Seeing explosions stagger The Ferocity of Xivu Arath. 

Weapon. 

For the first time since the assault began, the Acolyte glimpses the Final Shape. With this weapon, the Acolyte could ascend. It could impose Logic. This weapon could destroy—

Its incipient thought is interrupted by a hollow crunch. 

The Acolyte's eyes go dim. It slumps to the ground as a Knight dislodges its sword from the Acolyte's skull. It tosses away its subordinate's corpse with one hand and picks up the grenade launcher with the other.

A fine weapon. Worthy of a Knight of Xivu Arath.

<|endoftext|>

Salvager's Salvo

// VanNet—SECURE-04 // FORCES_OF_THE_CITY_INVESTIGATOR_LOGBOOK_01.7733// V.Maier //

Häkke armory got hit same time as the Tower disturbance. Forensics suggests that three Psions used a kinetic splitter to get through the security barrier and matter displacement anchors to make the concrete wall permeable. 

Can't get a straight answer on what Häkke was storing here. Salvage, not manufactures. Looks like ship parts, but I can't tell from what vessel. No one is giving me clearance to do a full analysis; have to sign it over to the Warlock Vanguard. 

// VanNet—SECURE-04 // FORCES_OF_THE_CITY_INVESTIGATOR_LOGBOOK_01.7734 // V.Maier //

Found a piece of hardware from the Häkke heist at a chop shop in Peregrine District. Busted the ring up and brought the salvage in. Same make and material as what Häkke was holding on to; Psions must have abandoned it when they were fleeing. Reported it to the Tower, but they're so busy, it could be days before they give a formal response. 

Meanwhile, I'm handing it over to Engineering to see what they make of it. Looks familiar, but I can't place it. 

// VanNet—SECURE-04 // FORCES_OF_THE_CITY_INVESTIGATOR_LOGBOOK_01.7737 // V.Maier //

Had to scrub a few logs. Following up on Engineering's findings. Got myself a day pass out of the City, took a jumpship to the edge of the EDZ. Listened to Vivaldi on the way, helped clear my head. If this turns out to be what I think it is, it could shift the balance of power completely. 

// VanNet—SECURE-04 // FORCES_OF_THE_CITY_INVESTIGATOR_LOGBOOK_01.7738 // V.Maier //

Confirmed. This is unbelievable. Need to get in touch with Lakshmi about this. 

// VanNet—SECURE-00 // VANGUARD_PERMANENT_RECORD_73.10159 // I.Rey //

A City investigator in the Future War Cult's pocket doesn't do us any favors. We picked up Investigator Maier at the City-level security checkpoint and impounded his ship. Of course, Lakshmi is feigning ignorance to all of this, and we don't have enough evidence to dig deeper. Not openly, anyway. 

My Hidden have secured the remains of the Cage that Häkke managed to scoop up after the Red War. But the damage is already done, and it just confirms my fears. Caiatl's people are researching the technology Ghaul used to shackle the Traveler and steal the Light.  

Word of this cannot reach the Lightless.

<|endoftext|>

Empty Vessel

Armored boots clang down metal stairs as Lord Saladin descends the catwalks between the central tower. The Bazaar is otherwise quiet, giving him time to contemplate the strategy needed for his impending diplomatic liaison.

"I demand a place in the decision making for…" Saladin trails off in thought as he walks. "I request addition to your council for…" He grunts, shaking his head. "Commander, I'm concerned about your inclusion of Future War Cult in…" A grumble. None of it sounds right.

Saladin pauses to look out over the City, where the streets are hidden behind a shimmering pall of digital fog. He closes his eyes, shakes his head, and takes a moment to compose himself. There are no sounds of fighting here, no gunshots, no screams. Those exist only in his mind.

"Zavala. I would like to speak to you as a friend," Saladin tries again, then opens his eyes to the Traveler with an affirming nod.

"You'll have to speak a little louder if you'd like the commander to hear you."

The sudden intrusion of a voice not his own wheels Saladin around, catching Osiris uncomfortably close behind him. Saladin's expression shifts from shock to embarrassment concealed behind a mask of frustration. "It is unbecoming of you to eavesdrop, Warlock."

"Please," Osiris dismisses, slowly approaching Saladin. "Anyone with an ear could hear you mumbling to yourself. I just happened to comment on it." He gestures with an open hand, then clasps both behind his back.

"I have a meeting to attend," Saladin insists, turning to make an abrupt exit. Osiris sidesteps, getting between Saladin and the stairs, and elicits an immediate look of challenge from the Iron Lord.

Osiris, mindfully, raises both his hands. "Please, Lord Saladin. A moment?"

Saladin crosses his arms over his chest. Impatience shows in a crease of his brow.

"Now may not be the best time if you're hoping to find an ally in the commander," Osiris explains as he places a guiding hand on Saladin's elbow, drawing him away from the main walkway.

"Commander Zavala is under considerable stress at the moment," Osiris continues. "While you might see your presence as a reinforcing one…" He raises his brows, glancing sidelong at Saladin. "You may not be correct in that assertion."

"Stop talking in circles." Saladin plants his feet. "What is it you're getting at?"

"When was the last time you—to put it as you did earlier—eavesdropped?" 

Saladin rankles. "I do not eavesdrop," he growls.

"Then perhaps that is why you do not realize what the overall opinion of your actions are in the eyes of other Guardians." Osiris's tone is gentle, apologetic, measured. It conveys an obvious tone: this news is bad, and he hates to be the bearer of bad news.

Saladin is quiet; Osiris sees the lack of outward defiance as a foothold. He digs in.

"Many without our shared convictions have questioned your leadership decisions during the recent crisis with Empress Caiatl." Osiris dips his head in close to Saladin, voice hushed as if to share a secret. "Others suggest that it was you who ordered the assassination attempt on the commander."

"An Iron Lord would never," Saladin says with a quaver in his voice. "I am not—"

"I know," Osiris is quick to softly interject. "But not everyone knows you like I do. They make well-articulated and convincing arguments based off of your very vocal stance against an armistice with the Cabal."

Closing his eyes, Saladin draws in a slow and calming breath. The sounds of gunfire, shouts, and screams are louder now than ever before. Or maybe it's the blood pounding in his ears. "All the more reason for me to set the record straight."

"Is that what you came to the City for? To set a record straight?" Osiris presses. "Just a minute ago, it sounded to me like you wished to ask for a place in Zavala's inner circle. How do you think that might look?"

Saladin looks in the direction of Zavala's office, hands curling into fists. "Lakshmi-2 is—"

"Let me handle Lakshmi," Osiris insists, once more reaching out a hand for Saladin's arm. This time, the Iron Lord doesn't pull away. "Fight the battles you know you can win, Lord Saladin. I know how to handle her. There may come a time when your strength will be needed again, but that time is not now."

Saladin looks sharply to Osiris. A rebuttal forms behind his lips, but is never spoken aloud. He lets his head hang.

"Thank you, Osiris," Saladin says with a heavy heart, conviction flagging. "You are a true friend."

<|endoftext|>

Ignition Code

Ahrrha hauled a metal crate from the drop ship toward the haphazard Eliksni settlement. He moved slowly, matching the pace of his malnourished workmates. Though he had fasted during his trip, Ahrrha knew that his solid frame still made him stand out. He feared it would reveal him as the imposter and infiltrator he was, even while dressed as a House Salvation deserter.

During the approach to Earth, Ahrrha had been overawed. The Last City looked like a perfect ripple of Light from above, dropped from the impassive form of the Great Machine. Ahrrha wondered for the first time in his life if the Spider was wrong about the Guardians.

But his misgivings evaporated as soon as he emerged from the drop ship. Rather than living in a gleaming city of crystal, the Eliksni were packed into the bombed-out ruins of a former war zone. The area they'd been "given" appeared to be on the verge of collapse. 

Ahrrha sneered inwardly. Did the Guardians really believe that the Eliksni could be pacified so cheaply? That they were content to live under the boots of the Vanguard, gnawing at scraps? Perhaps it was true for fools like Misraaks, his Awoken-raised hatchling, and cowards like the Empty Weaver. 

But the Spider's acquiescence would not be so easily bought. In fact, Ahrrha thought, the Spider could probably own this settlement within a year. The generosity and goodwill of House Light would soon crumble to greed and hubris, as they all did. And once Spider's syndicate had a foothold, they would make the Vanguard pay. In Glimmer, weapons, Ether, and blood.

<|endoftext|>

Retrofuturist

I watch them frolic blithely beneath their oblivious god.

I am among those assembled to witness their training. They wish to become stronger than the Cabal. Than Xivu Arath. Than the Hive.

Their ignorance of their true enemy is overwhelming—they cannot even put a name to it. I am choked with rancid ambrosia.

Two men now remain in the artificial battleground. Their movements are simplistic: one charges blindly ahead. The other rolls to the side, fires a shotgun, and his opponent falls.

The victor turns to the crowd and removes his helmet. Oily fluids bead on the flesh of his face. He bears teeth that squirm with microbial life. He throws his arms upward in jubilation and the masses cheer.

I do not join them—this form affords me some dignities.

Behind the creature reveling in minor triumph, sacrilege: A perfect being materializes. It gathers meat and offal from the ground and reassembles it. An unfathomable gift is given.

The crowd has seen this miracle countless times. It has lost all meaning to them. They see it as a resource.

I look up into the blank white face. I feel its Light on my cheeks. It no longer burns me.

Each revival is a choice.

I know what to do.

<|endoftext|>

A Sudden Death

You spoke with the deep-orbit minds. 
we heard what you asked 
BUT THEY HAD QUESTIONS TOO 
The lying robot no longer lies with others. Where is he?

<|endoftext|>

Zenith of Your Kind

I have come to admire how you rally against the impossible. It's not your continual success that amuses me—your Light assures victory—it's your refusal to kneel. You fight and you die without a second thought. For what? Personal glory? Wealth? The wretched denizens of your refugee city?

You have made bitter foes of races older, nobler, and worthier than you.

You struggle so vainly and valiantly when you have so little. When you are so little. Everything this universe has thrown against you and still you persist.

I could finish you. And you would not be at my side at the dimming of the world. You, the Guardian of Guardians.

If I wished it, you would die your final death. But I won't. Why? Because I'm in love.

—Calus, Emperor of the Cabal

<|endoftext|>

The Comedian

Zavala stared dully at the papers on his desk.

Reports splayed out in front of him: Sightings of Osiris moving toward the Dreaming City. Dispatches for Saint-14 and Crow. Reams of dire investigations from Ikora.

On page after page, the name "Osiris" jumped out at him. And then the name "Savathûn."

He reached for an older report; something simpler, buried beneath the damage assessments from the Vex incursion in the Botza District—the smoke from the attack had barely cleared, but it felt like so long ago.

He found Rahool's analysis of the Endless Night. It detailed how the Vex energies pouring from their network blocked the sun, drained the resources of the City; how the pulsing of their particular frequencies made the citizenry paranoid and susceptible to suggestion…

Zavala resisted the urge to crumple the report in his fist. Instead, he stood and turned to rest his forehead against the tall window as he closed his eyes.

He remembered when he ended Osiris's exile from the City and allowed him to stay in the Annex. He remembered when he spoke with him about the death of Sagira. When he consulted with him on what to do with Crow. When he brought him as counsel to meet with Caiatl.

And he remembered how, each time, the sun had been shining.

<|endoftext|>

Reckless Endangerment

EDZ-224107

You can't beat Hive into submission, or threaten them with pain. They live pain, speak it even. But they're vulnerable to hubris. 

Glint whirs, moving to get a better angle. "You're lucky that cleaver didn't chop you in half." 

Crow understands the danger. Glint's sure said it enough—but he knows that his intel saves fireteams from ambushes and uncovers Lucent Hive positions. Self-destruction be damned; you can't argue with results. 

"Just because I can fix you doesn't mean you shouldn't protect yourself," Glint hums. Rain washes blood from accumulated holes in Crow's armor. There is thunder, but he can't see the flash.

COSMODROME-224112

Crow trades blows with a Lucent Wizard until she grounds him with an Arc lance. He writhes across the dirt. She promises to sacrifice his Light to a vessel in the Hellmouth. He feigns begging. The Wizard cackles with delight and lets slip her commander's name on the Moon. Crow thanks her with a well-placed Solar blade. Glint materializes as Crow calls the Accipiter.

"I know it's not what Saladin would do."
 
Crow winces as Glint stitches the gushing split in his neck with Light-thread restoration. 

"The Hive need to think they're winning," Crow says through gritted teeth. 

They monologue, like their words are torture; reveal tiny scraps as they mock him, when they think he's done for. And he lets them. He collects the grains of truth and turns them into something useful. 

MOON-224120

Crow stares down over thirty Hive emerging from the gaping Hellmouth. Two Lightbearing Knights lead them. They shriek and posture over the corpse of a freshly drained Guardian.

"You should go," Crow says to Glint, removing his helmet. He sets it on the stone at his feet. The thin Moon air is coarse with particulate. He dashes toward the gnashing swarm.

"At least put your helmet back on!" Glint calls after him meekly. "…I'll get help!"

Solar Light flows through Crow. "Come on! YOU WANT ME? I'M HERE!" 

Hand flexes around the grip of his cannon; flames sputter from fingertips across cylinder—a series of firebolts crack from Crow's freshly kindled Golden Gun. He unloads as many rounds as he can before the Hive close the distance to him. It's enough to incinerate the Knight and their Ghost, but not the army of Thrall still rushing him down. Crow primes a Tripmine Grenade as the churn of Thrall claws tear him apart.

*****

Crow opens his eyes. Glint floats over him beside a strange woman. 

"That was a wasteful life, Prince of the Reef," she says disapprovingly.

"Don't call me that." He sits up in a hanging trail of moondust, realizing she likely dragged his body from the Hellmouth.

"He's not a fan of nicknames," Glint whispers to her.

"Very well. I'm Eris Morn, a friend," the woman croons with an outstretched hand.

"Right." Crow takes her hand and stands. "Makes sense… with the…" Crow gestures to his eyes, but Eris doesn't seem to react. He coughs awkwardly. "Uh, Ikora mentioned you… being on Europa, and Mars, I think."

"The Hive move against Earth. Something approaches, and I am deciphering its course. Though regarding Savathûn's plots and the whims of queens, I imagine our motivations are not dissimilar."

Crow sighs. "Well, I'm done being strung along by people with plans."

"The powerful have plans for us all. It's better to see them laid out before you," Eris offers.

Crow glares at his Ghost. "Hm. Sounds like someone's been sharing again…"

"I knew you, and I know of you." Eris grips the scales of his sleeve and pulls him uncomfortably close. "Your memories will be lessons in time, when you've burned out your vengeance and self-pity. Trust."

<|endoftext|>

Motion to Vacate

Remember the slaughter?

it was no slaughter

OUR CHILDREN.

stolen constructs not ours

I can still hear the echoes.

hallucinations

T E N T H O U S A N D D Y I N G W I S H E S

we were merciful

WE SHOULD HAVE CHOSEN OTHERWISE.

the dreamer survived

O N L Y T O F A L L

rid yourselves of this regret

<|endoftext|>

Sojourner's Tale

The pipes are silent.  

Ether production is paused during batch loading, and in that interstitial time, Spider's lair feels like a tomb. Every creak and groan of his throne becomes excruciatingly pronounced. Spider reclines against one arm, rolling a dead Ghost's shell in one hand, scraping a clawed finger across its gray, lifeless eye. The arrival of a trusted associate pulls Spider from his thoughts. 

"Avrok," Spider bellows, turning his attention to the armored Eliksni striding through the doorway, "what did you find?" 

Avrok approaches Spider's throne, wringing his hands together anxiously. "Our thief, my lord." 

Spider leans forward with a groan of the cables suspending his throne. "And what did you do to them?" he asks in greedy anticipation. That, however, is where Avrok falters. 

"I did not… catch them, my lord," Avrok humbly answers, his much smaller frame eclipsed in Spider's shadow. "But I have a name." 

"Out with it," Spider grouses, falling back against his throne with deflated interest. 

"The Crow." 

Spider's blood turns to fire. His grip tightens on that dead Ghost so hard its shell cracks. Spider continues squeezing it until the glass eye completely pops. 

Then he takes a moment to compose himself. 

"Our little bird, come home to the nest so soon? Tell me everything." 

"He was able to infiltrate the storehouse," Avrok explains, "and coerced a team of laborers to offload cargo promised to the empress onto a Skiff, which he then… stole. Along with a cache of your more—ah—personal belongings, among which was the quantum opal." 

 Avrok shrinks lower, lower, lower. "The supplies were delivered to Mithrax. In your name. As a gift." 

"And the workers?" Spider growls. 

"They are gone?" Avrok doesn't mean to make it sound like a question, and regrets taking the tone immediately. 

"To where, exactly?" 

"They…" Avrok takes a small step back from Spider's throne. "Left." He clenches his jaws. "With the Crow." 

Spider slowly leans forward again. 

"For Earth," Avrok concludes. 

The Ether pipes begin to hum and rattle as a new batch begins production elsewhere in the complex. The noises rise in intensity, turning into the familiar hissing wail that joins with the uncomfortable sound of Spider. Laughing. 

The Baron of the Shore throws his dead Ghost at Avrok who ducks away from it, covering his head with his hands. 

"He's taking them to Mithrax," Spider says between fitful chuckles and wheezing coughs. "He steals—from me—and gives it to the House of Light? Unbelievable." Though behind the laughter and coughs, there is a hint of appreciation in his tone. "The kid's grown a spine." 

"There is," Avrok starts, offering Spider a folded piece of paper, "one more thing. He left this behind." Spider's seal is scribbled on one side. "For you." 

As Spider unfolds the note, Avrok creeps further away from the throne. Inside is nothing more than a crude drawing and a rude missive. 

 "That little sh— "

The pipes are howling.

<|endoftext|>

Felwinter's Lie

"We can't tell anyone.

"Do you know how powerful a Warmind is? I know you do. We've been running from one for centuries. 

"Not just powerful, either. Intelligent. Storing every secret of the Golden Age, from the Traveler's arrival right up until the Collapse.

"Imagine if people realized you had all of that, buried somewhere in your head. Just imagine.

"So we can't. We can't tell anyone.

"You're something… totally new. Part Guardian, part Warmind. There's no one else like you.

"… I think that's why the Traveler sent me to you.

"But other people won't understand it. And Rasputin will never, ever stop coming after you. After us.

"Ever.

"So it's just us, Felwinter. Just you and me.

"This is our lie, and ours alone."

<|endoftext|>

Riiswalker

A hurled bottle strikes an Eliksni in the head, sending him staggering to the side in a crowded street. Glass glitters on the ground. People gathered in a semicircle around him shout invectives and slurs, as he bleeds midnight blue from a deep cut in his brow. He has nowhere to run, cornered between a neon-lit club pulsing with the bass beats of rhythmic music and an alley blocked off by rubble left over from the Red War. 

"Please, no harm. Vriiksis friend!" he cries, two hands clutching his head, another held out flat as if it would ward the crowd off. "Looking for brother—missing. Please!"

The crowd does not care, and they continue to work themselves up into a fervor. Lakshmi-2's words fill their mouths, many of them too young or too naïve to realize it. Vriiksis can't understand so many unfamiliar languages shouted at him at once, but he understands the tone of violence well. His posture says everything—the fear in his eyes carries additional nuance. He fears what happened to his brother. Hate begins to take root in his heart.

A foundry worker steps out of the crowd, threateningly racking a round into a Shotgun. He aims down at the Eliksni, hands trembling. "You want to ask about family?!" the Human yells. Vriiksis does not know what he's talking about. "Your people kidnapped my sister! She was running supplies from Earth to Titan. You raided it!"

"Vriiksis does not—" He is cut off by a blast from the Shotgun that pulverizes the street beside him. Vriiksis crumples to his knees and cowers. "Please," he says, and in the same motion, picks up a broken piece of the bottle he'd been hit with earlier to defend himself.

The crowd screams in outrage.

When the foundry worker advances on Vriiksis and racks another round into the Shotgun, there is a sudden cold snap that fills the air with mist. The Shotgun flash freezes, shatters like glass, and scatters into pieces of blue-black Stasis. The worker recoils, clutching his half-frozen arm, screaming. 

Vriiksis sees the crowd part behind his attacker, and a Hunter clad in black and gold with luminous markings on her armor strides toward them both. Darkness coalesces around her hand. Stasis crystals drift like tiny moons around her.

"That's enough!" Aisha shouts. "You should all be ashamed of yourselves! Look at you!" 

Aisha grabs the injured foundry worker by the collar with her free hand and shoves him back into the crowd. "Clear out of here before I clear you out! Now!" Wind swirls around Aisha's feet, kicking up crystalline debris in whirling threads of Darkness. The crowd recedes like a violent tide, some tripping over others in their haste to flee.

As the crowd disperses, Aisha dismisses the sickle of Stasis, and the swirling wind at her feet fades as well. She turns, looking at Vriiksis and offers a hand out to him. "I'm sorry," she says with a tightness in her voice. He cannot see her expression behind the façade of her helmet.

Vriiksis does not take the offered hand. His eyes show the same fear. The same hate.

"It's okay," Aisha says slowly, offering her hand again. "You're safe now, they're—" 

"Not safe," Vriiksis snaps at Aisha, his eyes dipping down to her hand and then back up to her helm. "You are just like Eramis. Mind-poisoned."

Aisha's breath hitches in the back of her throat, and she slowly lowers the offered hand, closing gloved fingers into a briefly formed fist. "You're hurt. At least let me escort you to a medical…" Her voice trails off. Vriiksis is already backing down an alley, blue eyes locked on her. 

She feels a weight on her shoulders, in her heart. 

The Eliksni disappears into the shadows, leaving Aisha alone under an endless night's sky.

<|endoftext|>

The Deicide

Encoded private ping via HDN Proxy Router…

Ikora, thought you'd want to see this. It presents as binary in our systems, but something is splicing hashes in. I pulled it from the Tower's Nexus Iso-feed. It's all over FWC networks… and elsewhere.

| 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 01000011.# 01000101 01000110.# 01000100.# 01000010 01000100.# 01000101 01000001.# || 

My guess is the lettering indicates some kind of audible tone-code pattern, but I haven't listened to it. 

One of my subordinates has isolated minor pitch fluctuations represented here as "#". 

These are foreign elements to otherwise normal binary code. 

See attached report for archival information on binary code. 

—Aunor

<|endoftext|>

Compass Rose

"You should put your gun away," the Warlock says as her Hunter companion strolls into the empty office. A long, appreciative whistle escapes him as he slowly turns and surveys the room.

"The commander's sure come on up, hasn't he?" the Hunter remarks, Shotgun still resting on his shoulder. Then, noticing something on a high shelf, he wonders: "Is that a cat?"

The Warlock gives him a gentle shove into the middle of the room, then slowly urges his Shotgun down from his shoulder; her touch leaves an ice-rimmed mark on the barrel. The look she levels at the Hunter is patient, but thinning.

"I don't recall having a meeting scheduled right now," booms a voice from the doorway. Both Warlock and Hunter turn to face Commander Zavala, the Hunter shifting his Shotgun behind his back as his Ghost decompiles the weapon. He gives Zavala a crooked, apologetic smile and shows his hands to the Warlock in a "Gun? What gun?" gesture.

"Commander Zavala," the Warlock says with a quick chastising look at her cohort. "I'm—"

"I know who you two are," Zavala says as he breezes past them. "I have a call with the Consensus in ten minutes. You have eight of them."

"He's heard of us!" the Hunter whispers to the Warlock, who gives him a surreptitious elbow in the side.

"Commander. First of all, we wanted to thank you for the rescue efforts on Europa. We wanted to talk about the long-term plans regarding Eliksni settlement in the City."

Zavala sits at his desk, his face weary. "There is no long-term plan. Yet."

"You didn't have a plan before putting them in a bombed-out ditch?" the Hunter interjects. Zavala's expression is mixed with surprise and aggravation, but he lets out a burst of laughter—it crescendos in an uncharacteristically jovial manner before dissipating into a sigh.

"I suppose it looks like that," Zavala admits. "This is the territory the Consensus would cede for the time being. But the plan is to turn the area into a community learning annex where the Eliksni and humanity can freely share ideas, culture, and language."

"And they would live there?" the Warlock asks.

"No," Zavala says with a shake of his head. "If everything goes well, they'll live in the City. Wherever they'd like. It's just going to take time to build up the piece of Botza District we gave them, and to make sure the people of the City accept them. The last thing we need is violence born out of confusion and ignorance."

The Warlock and Hunter look to one another, then back to Zavala. "That's… honestly better than we expected. No—offense to your city planning strategies, Commander, I just—"

"It wasn't my plan," Zavala says, motioning to the woman eavesdropping in doorway. 

"Ikora," the Warlock says with a respectful incline of her head.



Both Warlock and Hunter look shocked at her presence. Ikora smiles demurely and more fully invites herself into the room.

 "When I heard Mithrax's old fireteam had come to the City, I was surprised to see you here, rather than down there with him," Ikora says, though she isn't truly surprised. "Have you given him your regards?"

"With everything that happened on Europa, ma'am, we didn't think it prudent. He's still—there's still raw emotions and—with everything going on right now, it's been hard to connect with him," the Warlock admits, giving the Hunter a concerned look. Ikora regards them for a moment, then nods and approaches Zavala.

"Family struggles can be challenging," Ikora recognizes, her hand on the back of Zavala's chair. "Even with found family. But I have faith you'll find a way to work it out."

She leans over and whispers something to him; the Vanguard commander gives her a look of approval as he begins opening terminal windows for his impending meeting. 

"In the meantime, how would you two like to help the Vanguard?" Ikora asks with one brow raised. The Warlock and Hunter cast a furtive look to one another, but both are quick to offer silent nods of affirmation. Ikora smiles, having expected that response, and spreads her arms to herd the pair out of Zavala's office.

"Good. We have a long-range scout operating outside of the City, a newly minted Hunter, and we'd like you two to keep him company," Ikora says as she walks. She glances briefly back over her shoulder to Zavala, who offers her an appreciative smile.

"Who?" the Warlock asks. 

"That's… complicated."

<|endoftext|>

Fractethyst

Amanda Holliday finished welding the new fluid catch to the underside of the Ether tanks with a satisfied grunt. She wriggled her way backwards into the corridor and bumped into the legs of the massive Eliksni who was crouched behind her.

"Mithrax!" she scolded, pulling off her welding helmet.

"Amanda," Mithrax replied. "You are unexpected, but welcome. You are improving our Ether tanks?"

"I threw a fresh fluid catch on there, yeah," Amanda shrugged as she repacked her tools. "It's nothing you couldn't do yourselves, but I was passing by."

Mithrax gazed across the Botza District for a moment. "I find that unlikely," he said wryly.

Amanda laughed. "C'mon now. You know what they say about gift horses."

Mithrax cocked his head.

"Forget it," she said. "So, how've y'all been doing down here? Since, y'know…" she trailed off.

"Since the Human and Vex attacks have ceased, we have been well," Mithrax said, standing to his full height as he pulled Amanda to her feet. "With the Endless Night lifted, resources are more plentiful. I see your people and mine moving forward together."

"Yeah, it's nice," Amanda agreed. "Things are happening now I wouldn't have dreamed of a few months ago. The other day, I saw a group of Eliksni at the Bazaar picking out Ghost shells!" 

Mithrax's laughter was a deep rumble. "Yes, the empty shells are quite beautiful. Would you introduce me to your Ghost, Amanda? I would enjoy meeting them."

"Ooh, sorry," Amanda chuckled. She put two fingers to her wrist. "Still got a pulse. No Ghost for me." 

Mithrax balked. "You are not a Lightbearer?"

"Nope," she said, "just a regular person."

Mithrax thought for a moment. "To aid as you do without the gift of the Light…" he said, bringing a clawed hand to his chest and bowing. "There is much my people would learn from you."

Amanda shifted from one foot to the other and scratched at her neck. "Afraid I ain't much of a teacher," she said quietly.

Mithrax smiled. "I find that unlikely."

<|endoftext|>

Alone as a God

My imperial guard marched into the temple where the senate convened. They formed a protective circle from which I might bestow the gift of my address. 

"From this day forward, I shall take up all the empire in my embrace. For I am father of the empire, as I am father to all creation. I will suffer no tired institution nor petty bureaucrat to stand between me and my children. I am the perfect loving god, and all will tremble to know me." 

The imperial guard charged their rail guns in perfect unison.

<|endoftext|>

Adored

"You are late. This is an insult." Brivi, the Eliksni leader of Spider's road crew, leaps from the back of his Pike. He brandishes his Wire Rifle with his lower arms and bristles his helmet quills to emphasize his grievance. "The Spider expected this shipment yesterday."

The Human smuggler shrugs in irritation. His steely eyes bore into the glowing lenses of Brivi's helmet. "I don't give an Ogre's steaming turd what the Spider expects." His hand drifts towards his Sidearm, resting gently on its handle. "If he has another way to get City Age gear out of the Tower without the Guardians noticing, he's welcome to try."

The three other members of Brivi's crew snarl at the insult and power up their Arc weapons. Brivi holds up one of his upper arms to stay their tempers. Killing this Human would only further anger the Spider. "Show your wares." 

The smuggler snorts. He opens the cargo hatch on his jumpship with a depressurizing hiss, revealing several crates of gleaming weapons. He smirks with derision as the road crew's demeanor instantly changes from hardened gangsters to kids in a candy store. 

They immediately begin fondling the weapons, admiring the City Age craftsmanship. Brivi picks up a brass-colored Sniper Rifle bundled in rich purple cloth. Its fine scrollwork and elegant barrel make it seem more like a musical instrument than a gun. 

He wonders how wealthy the Humans must have been to put such artistry into something so utilitarian. He wonders how many other treasures molder in the room this was stolen from. He wonders how many Eliksni this rifle had felled in its time. 

Beside the Human weapon, Brivi's scrap-repaired Wire Rifle looks pathetic and disheveled. He resents its shabbiness. It reminds him of why Humans call his kind "the Fallen." 

Brivi drops the Sniper Rifle to the floor with a careless clunk. "Load this junk," he growls, "so we can go."

<|endoftext|>

The Long Walk

[Eight sparks. A ninth, dim in the corner. And Orin in the middle.] 
ORIN: Are we all here? Come into the light, please. 
G-9: I like where I am. 
ORIN: They said you all went to the deep without a ship. How? 
G-7: Our charges are gone, but we're still creatures of Light. No different from the one you carry in your pocket. 
ORIN: You're all either very brave or very foolish. 
G-6: You sound like Shaxx. 
G-5: She does. I'm glad my charge is gone. 
G-4: Don't say that. 
G-5: It's true. 
G-4: Don't say it out loud. Some of us go our whole lives without finding one. Show some respect. 
G-5: Don't talk like you're better than me. You're in here, too. 
ORIN: Please. I'm sorry to call you all here, but— 
G-2: You're not sorry. 
ORIN: I need to know what you found out there. 
G-9: Nothing. 
ORIN: At least give me the coordinates.

<|endoftext|>

Silicon Neuroma

A staggering Vex detonates, and the Exo Hunter is torn in two. One half sinks beneath the lake's opaque surface.

Asher's eyes go wide and he freezes. Whatever they'd stumbled into down here was multiplicatively more lethal. He reloads his fusion rifle and looks around wildly.

The other Hunter—she's the only other one left alive, no, stay calm—throws a smoke bomb and disappears. Asher barely has time to react before the Hunter reappears on high ground and draws a bow of Void energy, almost in slow motion.

Crack! Crack! Crack! Ten Vex fall. Asher watches them disintegrate, looks back up to the Hunter—but the yell of gratitude catches in his throat as four Vex shimmer into existence behind her.

Asher can't watch this time. He frantically searches for a way out… and a tentacle grabs his Ghost.

A millisecond of pain in his shoulder and everything goes white.

<|endoftext|>

Far Future

Ixel : mutineer : Far-Reaching : murderer : Psion : prophet

1 : the Tower burns : Fallen in the streets : screaming : the Hive Witch dissembles : crackling portal : treachery : Vex emerge : Zavala commands—

2 : the abandoned Tower : desiccated carcasses : wind : Dark spores : Traveler disappears : Pyramid overhead : a Voice behind the Darkness—

3 : the battered Tower : sizzling Arc : Psions burn : frigate crashes : Zavala dies : the Hive Witch comforts : sacrifice awakens : one-horn attacks : Cabal retreat—

4 :  the Tower in ruins : Legionaries patrol : torn banners : executions : a land tank rumbles : Fallen scavengers : transmission : the fleet is destroyed : Wrath of the Hive : we are extinct—

5: the Tower molders : the Hive Witch's worm : Ghosts at war : a Voice behind the Darkness : the Traveler abandoned us : Taken Cabal : a new Hive rejoices—

6 : the Tower is still : funeral procession : Zavala dies :  Zavala dies : Zavala dies : candles : quiet argument : how did they get in : the Witch Queen flees : they are coming—

7: the besieged Tower : trampled flowers : portraits : Zavala is dead : ataxia : wailing : our assassin : the Traveler overhead : the empress looks down : the Light is ours : Primus Ixel—

Ixel : Primus : Far-Reaching : prophet : conqueror : hero

<|endoftext|>

Heavy

Weapons that consume purple ammo.

<|endoftext|>

I Am Alive

Now I've seen everything. We were all so wrong. All of this—the machines, the Eliksni, the worms, the Light, the Nine. All of it meaningless. This galaxy is tumbling toward a singular conclusion and there is nothing—no one—that can stop it.

How could I have missed this? It's the small moments, the simple pleasures that matter. They're all I can think about now. Food and drink aren't mere sustenance. They're a reminder that I am alive.

This Leviathan. This prison ship. I will remake it, as I have been remade. No longer will it represent a mythical beast from the dreams of worms. It will serve as an icon for my newfound gluttony.

<|endoftext|>

Blast Battue

Rc-9: This is Vanguard Militia Scout-ship: Recon-9, making my report via VanNet proxy satellite. I have completed my sweep through the Reef and am filing an incident report hence forth referred to as Inc-01, should it be referenced.

Shuffling is heard as the speaker adjusts. Papers sift and the microphone crackles slightly. 

Rc-9: The basis of my visit to the Tangled Shore was to conduct routine Vanguard/Reef security sweeps, as agreed upon since the day of incursion. I was escorted most of the way to the Shore by Awoken gunships, and only landed once my long-range scanner picked up a sub-audio reading emanating from the underbelly of one of the larger asteroid landmasses. 

The speaker clears their throat. 

Rc-9: I called in the disturbance to a nearby Awoken vessel and was told to, and I quote, "Mind my own business and be on my way," so naturally, I thanked them for their assistance, feigned departure, and landed to check it out. They didn't seem to notice the signal. At the signal's source, I discovered a small camp of what I initially thought were Scorn. Upon further observation, I found that these were not Scorn but Fallen afflicted with some kind of flesh deformity and mental degradation. Shot one dead and the others just looked at me. They didn't fight back. Fired a few cesium charges into the asteroid hole and watched 'em burn. Just sat there. I didn't hear it clearly, but they were chanting something. I don't know. Hard to hear over the fire. 

The speaker laughs to themselves and emulates popping noises. 

Rc-9: I heard more of them whispering a little deeper in, so I waited for the area to burn out and continued inside. I found one structure of apparent Hive architecture, though it did not appear to have been constructed in any traditional sense… but then again, I don't know what I should even expect from the Hive at this point. A single Fallen was inside, became violent when I approached and brandished a weapon. The weapon was not loaded, and I put them down. 

Rc-9: My logs will show a few recovered pieces of equipment that I will list now. One presumably organic section of the Hive structure. It is perpetually wet, just… great job on that, and causes dizziness and blurred vision when held with ungloved hands. It also has the unnerving ability to project dysphoria or general unease. I was asked to collect a sample for study by my CO. I've done that. Put it in a lead box all the way in the back of the cargo hold. Yeah. Eternal tithings to Xivu Arath. Whatever. Um… as I was saying. 

A tin is heard being unlatched. 

Rc-9: Also recovered: one tube-style Grenade Launcher. It has no foundry markings. Definitely not Fallen, and I don't think the Scorn even know how to make weapons. Do the Awoken make Grenade Launchers? Always struck me as a Human weapon. Beautiful weapon. The thing wants to be used. Maybe I'll get an opportunity to use it before I get back to the Tower. Lastly, I recovered a locational tracker from one of the Fallen. Following it back to someplace else in the Reef. Little remote. I'll call in my findings once I've finished there. 

Rc-9: Beautiful weapon. 

The recording cuts.

<|endoftext|>

Canis Major

Petra Venj and Ylaia sat together in a courtyard as the waning dusk of the Dreaming City settled in around them.

"I began the training first," Petra explained, "but I found it—difficult. It didn't come naturally to me. Not like this." She nodded toward the grenade launcher sitting beside her. 

"Imar didn't make it any easier. He was one of the oldest, and the only male Techeun I ever met. I never felt like he gave me an honest chance." Petra paused to consider. "Maybe he'd already looked in the future and saw that I'd washed out." 

"I didn't know exactly how unsuited I was until my sister started her training," Petra continued. "Right away, Pinar and I began having long conversations inside our dreams. We'd talk all night and wake up with full memories of what we'd said. That was the first time I realized how powerful she'd become." 

Petra lowered her eyes. "Of course, Pinar was Imar's favorite. And the more quickly she progressed, the stronger our shared dreams became. It didn't take long before it was more than just talking." 

"She began to manipulate the dreams—changing locations or her shape. I couldn't keep up. It was like being a passenger in my own head. Her dreams became my nightmares." Petra shook her head, as if dislodging an unwelcome memory. "That's when I quit the training and the dreams stopped." 

"Eventually I found my place in the Corsairs," Petra mused, "but part of me wishes I had finished my training as a Techeun. If I had, maybe I could still find Pinar out there, in a dream somewhere." She plucked a blade of grass from between the paving stones and tossed it into the breeze. 

After a pensive moment, Petra focused again on Ylaia. "So, my suggestion is to give the training a chance. If it takes, you'll know. And if not," she patted the grenade launcher at her side, "we've got plenty of other jobs for you."

<|endoftext|>

Corsair's Wrath

The Corsair reloaded behind her improvised barricade as Shredder rounds sizzled overhead. She wished she had better cover. The Hall of Names hadn't been constructed with defense in mind—apparently nobody dreamed the Awoken would be assaulted here. 

She reloaded her fusion rifle and assessed their situation. It was dire. Unless Leona Bryl's team managed to roll up the Hive's southern flank, her squad would be overrun. At least the Hall of Names was a fitting place for a last stand. 

She was six rounds short of a full clip. She turned to her left to ask Lira for extra ammo, only to discover her teammate slumped over, blue skin already going grey. The thick purple ichor of a soulfire round oozed from the hole in her chest. The Corsair gritted her teeth and looted Lira's kit for ammo. 

The Corsair finished reloading and popped her head back over the barricade. She downed three loping Acolytes in quick succession before even noticing the ogre looming in the background. It was enormous—at least seven meters high. She unloaded her fusion rifle into its face, trying to burrow rounds through its armored hide. She managed to blow off a chunk of its upper jaw before her rifle clicked empty. 

The Corsair dove back behind her barricade, ammo spent. She looked around the Hall for the last time, admiring the elegant statues, her chest swelling with bittersweet pride. The faces of her people, Techeuns and Queens, presiding over the battle. She remembered what Sedia had said to her long ago, before things got out of control: "We are only briefly Awoken. The rest of our existence is an eternal dream. And in that dream, we will all—"

<|endoftext|>

Threaded Needle

Ignovun, Chosen of the Cabal, spent all day receiving honors. After Empress Caiatl's announcement, every Legionnaire in the land tank had come to jealously salute him for his promotion. It was the appointment of a lifetime. 

Deep within the Halphas Electus, Ignovun oversaw his arena's preparation. There was the hanging of Caiatl's banners, the anointing of his ammunition, and the intonement of the Litany of the Chosen by an imperial mythkeeper. He was fitted for new armor that gleamed in the light. He was briefed on the protocols of the Rite, and the expectations of his victory. 

But now, alone in the arena, doubt creeps into Ignovun's thoughts. Ghaul believed that the strength of the smallmen was their Light. He reasoned that the power of the Traveler, like any weapon, could be stripped from the enemy and used against them. Clearly, he was wrong. 

Ignovun believes differently. Their strength comes not from Light, but from death. The Guardians are already walking corpses, and yet they fight on. They have all died a thousand times, while Ignovun has yet to die even once. How can he defeat an opponent whom death cannot best? 

Suddenly, the treacherous ravings of Ixel, the Far-Reaching did not seem so absurd. If the Cabal are to triumph over the smallmen, they will have to succeed where Ghaul failed. They will have to bring mortality to the Vanguard. 

Ignovun knows that these musings will not save him. But he does not fear: if the smallmen can face death, then so can he.

<|endoftext|>

Tarantula

"You can't be serious, Arrha. Nothing? You couldn't even scrape off a little stone to bring me?" 

Arrha shook his head. "The Spider asked for information," he answered in Eliksni, "But Cabal have found nothing, and House Salvation is still scattered." 

"I know what I asked for. And you know better than to return to me empty-handed. At least I thought you knew." Spider narrowed his eyes at his trembling Associate. 

"I do, the Spider. I… I have information, but not about Darkness. I saw the Crow. Tailing the Golem and his crew." 

"The Vanguard has him sniffing around Basilius, hm? So we do have something to trade with the empress after all. Not that it'll do her any good; my little bird  is devilishly hard to catch." Spider leaned forward. "Now HE would've gotten me something useful from Europa. You might've learned from him." 

"Yes, the Spider." Arrha nodded vigorously. The faint sounds of revelry drifted in from down the hall, where the other Associates were enjoying their week's earnings. 

"Avrok already told me about Crow's new assignment as Vanguard agent. Apparently, he's placed quite the wager on one of the Cabal's silly Rites ," the Spider chuckled. "Avrok should've dared him to bet his freedom. Could stand to win my whole trove, he's that valuable." 

"Yes, the Spider," Arrha repeated. Out of corner of his eye, he could see his share of Ether waiting in the corner. 

"Oh, take your wages and go. I ought to dock you for bringing me nothing, but I'm feeling generous this week." Spider's voice dropped into a growl. "Remember that I am good to you, Arrha." 

Arrha nodded as he scrambled to grab his Ether tanks and get out. Finally alone, the Spider sat back in his throne. 

"It's Crow, really, that needs the reminder," he mused aloud. "I wonder how I might give it to him?"

<|endoftext|>

Reed's Regret

A ceiling light flickers to life with a buzzing click, radiating a florescent pink glow. Moths scatter among the racks of weapons mounted on the walls.

Reed-7 ducks into the room, barely able to shut the door behind him. The space is little more than a closet: an arms locker stuffed to the ceiling with a collection of weapons. His hip brushes past a workbench, where a black-and-gold-plated fusion rifle marked with the Eye of Osiris rests.

He sinks into the seat at the workbench, shoulders slouched forward. The chair groans in protest under his weight. There are notes scrawled on loose papers around the fusion rifle, all in his friend Shayura's handwriting. A fine layer of dust covers everything.

Reed turns the fusion rifle over in his hands. He remembers when Saint-14 gave this to Shayura for her accomplishments in the Trials. He remembers a few months later when Shayura had a breakdown during a match and nearly killed another Guardian. He remembers the fallout. The anger. The pain.

"Do not worry for Shayura," Osiris had told him. Reed can still hear his voice haunting the back of his mind. "I am no stranger to these kinds of traumas. I can look after her. Guide her."

Reed's grip around the fusion rifle tightens.

"Show her the way back to clarity."

His hand trembles.

"You can trust me."

<|endoftext|>

21% Delirium

A Dark Age drifter stood against an oncoming horde. The stuff of nightmares. Quad-armed, mouths full of shining carnivore teeth, carrying weathered but fully functional armor and weapons. They moved as a mob, their boots kicking up clouds of dust as they advanced, blades glinting in the sun.

"All right," he said, a quiet salute to his dance partners as he wove around sizzling Arc bolts, coat trailing him like a shadow. He might not walk away from this. But they definitely wouldn't.

His Machine Gun spoke much louder than he did, over and over.

He had never brought himself to shoot a human. Or anything even resembling a human. Risen included.

But these were no Risen. No humans.

He broke their advance like oil parting water, the repeating bloom of his heavy leading the way. A blue, viscous film covered the dirt, dust, and rocks when he was finished.

"All right," he said, looking appreciably down at his smoking weapon. A trail of spent shells traced his path through his opponents' ranks.

Hard to find a bite out here, most days.

Every day.

He wondered what they'd taste like.

<|endoftext|>

Shattered Cipher

Helena looked suspiciously at the broken windows in the abandoned building and checked her datapad coordinates again. She'd never been to this corner of the City before.

"Mom?" she called doubtfully, hearing her voice echo in the empty space.

"Back here," answered her mother, and Helena's stomach dropped.

She pulled open a rusty door and found her mother in a low concrete room, frantically packing the contents of a long table into duffel bags. Along the far wall, another woman was balling up a plastic tarp. The room smelled like chemicals.

A man shouldering a large black bag pushed his way past her in a cloud of cologne, alcohol, and sour sweat.

Helena noticed a small signal jammer blinking orange on the table. Behind it, an Exo was waist-deep in a rebar-lined fracture in the floor.

"Tight fit," he grunted as he wriggled his way deeper into the gap, "but I'm guessing he didn't get far. I'll find him." He vanished into the hole.

"What's going on?" Helena asked.

"Don't ask questions," her mother said as she shrugged a damp strand of blonde hair out of her face. "We need to get moving." She nodded toward the far corner of the room. "You take that pile."

Helena crossed her arms warily. "Mom, what are you doing out here?"

"I don't have time to talk about this now," her mother snapped. "You don't know what's going on. You didn't see them looking through the windows. You didn't hear what this one said in the ramen shop."

For the first time, her mother looked up. Dangerous intensity burned in her eyes. "They're using the dark to blind us, and we're not going to let it happen. Now help me."

Helena walked slowly to the trash piled in the corner. Towels soaked with blue fluid. Rubbery tubes, strange scraps of metal. A laminated card that read "TEMPORARY."

Her voice was small. "Mama, what did you do?"

<|endoftext|>

THE SWARM

The Cosmodrome quakes under a killing wind: fire sent roaring from entrenched Cabal gunlines across the Mothyards. A Cabal advance threatens to encircle a defensive line held by crimson frames and one lone Light.

Shaw Han dips his head beneath a swivel of Machine Gun rounds and dives for the trench line. He slams his back against an earthen wall next to a few shot-to-pieces Redjacks. His eyes focus on the gaping bullet holes perforating their thin plating as he runs a shaky hand over his own chest. At least they were just frames. He had bled out from open wounds before and was in no rush to relive the experience. Shaw peers down to the end of his trench where a detachment of Gladiators crash through their flanks. "Just a little farther…"

A Solar explosion vaporizes the leading Gladiator and scatters their charge. A surviving Cabal recoils from the explosion in confusion. He stumbles backward into another of Shaw's trip mines and obliterates the rest of his comrades in a chain of explosions. Shaw exhales the tension in his chest and makes a mental note of the frames lost in the blast. He could take a verbal lashing from Shaxx if it meant no more blood on his hands.

He glances back to the flank. Through the settling dust of a crisis averted, Shaw sees faint silhouettes of a second Cabal charge incoming.

"Damn it!" Commander Zavala had tasked him with holding this sector. Had called him by name directly, imbued Shaw with his trust. He couldn't go back having lost a fertile ground for new Lights. Old Russia was his to protect, and no Cabal conqueror would claim it while he still drew breath.

 Slugs slap hard into the earthen trench wall at his back, sending reverberations through his ribs. He shifts to plot a safe path to defend the flank. Shaw readies to move as a heavy metal boot slams out of transmat in front of him, followed by a solid Light barricade erected to deflect the incoming metallurgic hail.

"Get up, Han. That ditch isn't going to save you." Machine Gun fire thunders off the barricade as Lord Saladin grabs him and raises Shaw to his feet. "That's for your Light to do."

"Saladin?" Shaw closes his mouth and tries again. "Lord Saladin."

"Zavala forwarded your support request." Saladin ignores Shaw's surprised expression and eyes the Cabal fortifications. "You're with me now."

"Sir." Shaw nods with a steady confidence. "What's the plan?"

Saladin peers through the cracking barricade, slugs crashing finger-lengths from his face. "Holliday is en route to deploy our heavy ordnance, but she needs their attention off the skies." Saladin looks at him for the first time and smiles. "Take out their flak guns, and give them no choice but to focus those Machine Gun nests on us."

"Oh…" Shaw wasn't sure if he'd call this a plan—maybe a Titan plan.

"You're fast on your feet, son. You'll be fine." Saladin motions the advance; "JACKS, SUPPRESSING FIRE!"

Lord Saladin strides into the no-man's-land surrounded by advancing Redjacks and a billowing aura of searing refraction. He hurls a fusion grenade across the expanse without breaking pace and demolishes one of the dozens of machinegun nests outright. Shaw moves behind him. Flame licks down the Ahamkara spine lashed to his arm until it meets the hammer of his weapon and ignites his Golden Gun. He singles out several enemy flak cannons and skewers them with Solar points, incinerating nearby Cabal.

Hot barrels realign on the Guardians as a magnificent flare emblazons Lord Saladin's armor in Solar Light. From his palms erupts a mighty maul that clinks into his gauntlets. Heavy slugs clang as they shrug off his immolated plate. He does not flinch or falter. Saladin charges the line, heat intensifying and melting slugs into slag droplets that ping and sizzle against him. He slams his maul into the dirt, driving a sweeping inferno toward the Cabal gunline. It hits like a bursting artillery shell, catching oil alight and spreading hot panic through the Cabal ranks.

Shaw dodges around incoming fire and reloads his weapon. He snaps off two more golden rays into the remaining enemy flak cannons. Frames push forward alongside them, absorbing slugs for the Guardians and keeping pressure on the gunline. Shaw spots several Gladiator detachments redirecting to confront them. He pushes the bulk of his Light into his weapon, spreads its influence to reach the nearby Redjacks, and reignites his gun before touching the barrel to the ground and firing. The ground bubbles with hot magmatic Light; a warmth envelops the Redjacks as Solar flame imbues and empowers their rifles with golden power. Shaw directs the firestorm of golden Redjack rifles to incinerate every last charging foe.

Saladin bears down on the Cabal, almost in their ranks now. He is a wildfire of Light and death. Legionaries flee their nests rather than challenge him. Frantic Cabal radio transmissions crackle across the battleground. All remaining guns turn to stop the Iron Lord's advance, but only succeed in slowing it. Saladin's voice bellows above the gunline.

"Now, Siegfried!" A Vanguard vulture-class battle carrier shrieks through the sky above, just long enough for a lone Guardian to drop from the clouds, a meteor wreathed in lightning, bringing down havoc from the skies.

<|endoftext|>

Recurrent Impact

Crow feels unease when he touches the active Psisorium. There's a throbbing sensation at the base of his skull. It starts at the back of his head and works its way forward. A compelling aura flows from the Psisorium, ushering buried memories to the surface of Crow's mind.

Uldren Sov felt unease as he stood with fingertips against the Dark Shard. Everything was wrong, but he ignored it. There was a throbbing sensation at the base of his skull. It burrowed underneath and snaked in between his vertebrae: an impulse taking hold in his nerves that he was helpless to follow. A whisper he strained to hear, "Save her."

The Psisorium vibrates against the nails of his ungloved fingertips. Lucent Hive bodies twitch in unfeeling response to the mental scrying. Crow feels the rhythm of alien thoughts sweep over him like wind on stone, catching in ruts and divots worn by time. He sees glimpses, reflections of an end to justify the means.

A voice rattled Uldren Sov's mind, the cool tones of his sister slipping into well-worn grooves as he watched dreams carve themselves into his reality. Lucidity flashed like panicked gasps under thin sheets of ice. His desire taken: wishes turning sour in his mouth as he spoke them, tasting no longer of promise, now only of regret.

<|endoftext|>

Sins of the Past

I weep for what the Cabal have become—a war machine forged in Ghaul's own image. His obsession with the ideal form has produced a hollow people devoid of culture, robbed of their history. 

The Leviathan is now home to the last of us true Cabal. We will remember the old ways, for I am the wellspring from which our great civilization flows. 

And when my empire returns, the traitors will see us as through a dark mirror. We will be a terrifying reminder of their former selves. In that moment, they will feel the shame of their betrayal. They will know I have come for my revenge. 

The Red Legion will not escape the sins of their past. They shall be consumed by them.

<|endoftext|>

Code Duello

There is a story of two weaponsmiths, both skilled at their trade.

One smith, Dhutus, worked with metals she pulled from the mountains herself. She tooled the rifling in her barrels with the steady hand of an artisan. Her dyes, cobalt and ichor, shone bright as beetleshell.

The other, Gharhet, came from the distant plains. He traded for his wares and sold them dear, and thus he amassed great wealth. He embellished his goods with a rich lacquer the color of flame.

When the Primus called for the strongest warriors to serve, the district knew the fighter Tlamus—who had broken all challengers with her keen aim and powerful frame—would represent them. Both Dhutus and Gharhet wished to outfit her with their finest pieces, as having a warrior of her status wear their colors would bring them great honor.

So Dhutus forged Tlamus a mighty war axe with an ice-blue handle and wide golden blade. Tlamus accepted the gift gladly.

Gharhet procured for her a Slug Rifle with bright orange plating, and Tlamus wore it proudly across her back.

Next, Dhutus crafted a Shotgun, metal burnished deep as night with bright vents along the sides, and Tlamus brought it into battle.

In response, Gharhet bought a helm with thick plating and stout antlers the color of a sunset, and they were soon stained with the blood of Tlamus's foes.

And Dhutus saw no end to this. Her shoulders ached from working the forge, and her hands were blistered by burns upon burns.

So Dhutus issued to Gharhet a challenge, and as he knew no one would raise the weapons of a coward, Gharhet accepted.

The next dawn found Dhutus on the battlefield waiting for her rival. On her shoulder was her finest weapon: a Rocket Launcher, its barrel a twisting column of seashell blue with gold trim, built as a gift for Tlamus but now wielded by its creator.

From across the field, a figure strode forward to meet Dhutus—but it was too wide to be Gharhet; too tall, too muscular. He had bought a champion to fight in his stead.

An orange sash was draped carelessly across her chest and dragged in the dust with each confident step. Studded orange leathers bound her massive arms and thighs. Strands of coral beads hung from her tusks.

She greeted Dhutus with a fist to her chest. "I am Tlamus," she said, "chosen of Gharhet."

Dhutus could not find her voice, and then Tlamus drew one of her beautiful, terrible weapons, and the rite was soon concluded.

<|endoftext|>

The Hothead

Zavala swung off his Sparrow in a rocky gulch near the EDZ. Across the wash, a Cabal Legionary leaned next to a small shuttle. A Psion stood at attention nearby.

"You Zavala?" the Legionary called.

Zavala tried not to feel slighted. "I am Commander Zavala," he answered.

The Legionary squinted and nodded slowly. "Had to make sure," it said. "Security stuff."

"Let's do this quick." The Legionary pointed a fat finger at the Psion. "This Psion's gonna ask you a question. Then you tell me your answer. I go tell Empress Caiatl, and that's all."

"What kind of question?" Zavala asked.

The Legionary shrugged. "Only the Psion and Empress Caiatl know. Safest that way."

Zavala warily approached the Psion. As it stared into him with its single eye, Zavala felt his ears ring. His hand went to his sidearm, but a vison sprang to his mind, vivid and fully formed:

Zavala saw the Dreaming City. He saw Cabal ships filling the sky, spewing oily smoke. 

Then, an explosion—a sea of explosions, violent red and black with the fury of planet killers. Unmakers. But concentrated. Refined. Perfect for the size of the task at hand.

He saw death for all in the Dreaming City, bodies facedown in the crystal grit of their palace. Mara Sov, Petra Venj, Corsairs, countless Awoken. Collateral. 

For at the bottom of a crater was the shattered body of a crystal-bound Hive god, destroyed at her most vulnerable moment, her trickery silenced forever.

Then a war, yes, probably—but a small one. 

And behind it, blood on two pairs of hands. Two willing to pay the price for peace.

"No."

Zavala broke the Psion's gaze, and the vision stopped abruptly. The Legionary grunted. "That your official answer?"

Zavala straightened. "My answer is no," he said clearly.

The Legionary nodded. "Fair enough," it said and took a half-step back from the Psion.

The Psion punched a code into a small wrist-mounted screen. There was a brief chime, a muffled pop, and the Psion slumped to the ground, blood pouring from a wound in its head. 

Zavala reached for his weapon again, but the Legionary laughed and held up a hand. "The volunteers knew that's part of the deal. Now nobody knows what the question was except for you and the Empress. Safest that way."

"Gotta go and tell her your answer," the Cabal called as it climbed into the shuttle. "Hope you made the right choice!"

The craft chugged into the sky, its jets spattering Zavala's boots with the Psion's blood.

<|endoftext|>

Ascendancy

Petra Venj was hunched over her workbench, reassembling a rocket launcher, when an odor prompted her to raise her head. The acrid smell lurked just beneath the gun oil and textured rubber. It was familiar but forbidding, like an uninvited memory.

She followed her nose into the hallways of the Dreaming City. As the scent grew stronger, she strode with increasing urgency. 

She rounded a corner and spotted wisps of bitter smoke issuing from under the door to a long-disused workshop. Fearing yet another calamity, Petra burst into the room. There, she discovered Sjari, seated cross-legged on the floor, amidst a sprawling antique chemistry set. 

The new Techeun turned to face her unexpected visitor. "I'm sorry," she said. "Was I being too loud?" 

Petra coughed and waved her hands frantically in front of her face. With the door open, the room began to clear. 

"Are you joking?" Petra fired back. "You're smoking out the whole city. What is that stink?" 

"Oh," the Techeun replied distractedly, "I forgot. Apologies." 

Petra leaned forward to examine Sjari's face. The new Techeun's pupils were shimmery and dilated, as if a tiny nebula swirled inside her eyeballs. Suddenly, Petra realized what the smell was.

"Are you trying to brew queensfoil?" Petra laughed. 

"I was," Sjari replied, "but I… got lost." 

"You're lucky I came," Petra chided. "Too much of that stuff, and you'll leave your mind in the Ascendant Plane." 

"We need to find the Ley Lines," Sjari said, as if suddenly recalling her original purpose. "We need to find Queen Mara." 

"You're right." Petra was suddenly somber. "We do. Queensfoil is a good idea. Keep at it." 

"But next time," she cautioned, wrinkling her nose, "take it to the courtyard."

<|endoftext|>

It Stared Back

The Leviathan came to a halt before a wall of infinite void. It could go no further, as the navigation system had suffered a cataclysmic failure. The course that the conspirators had set crossed a space that simply didn't exist. 

I don't know how long we traveled. Years? Millennia? Time had ceased to have meaning as I wallowed in the despair of my exile. But this event shook me out of my stupor. At the edge of the universe, we had found something. No—we had found a nothing. 

From the seat of my observation chamber, I stared into the perfect void. Only I, a god, could understand what I witnessed. It was a thing greater than myself. And if such a thing exists, then I, too, can become more.

<|endoftext|>

Traitor's Fate

Know that I am Calus, the last and greatest emperor of the Cabal. Know that the Ghost Primus was false and that your place in my court was secured when he met the Traitor's Fate. Finally, my champion, little else stands between us.

Look to the heavens and you will see me with my arms spread wide. Fly to me and I will bathe you in gold, share the fruits of my gardens, and watch you grow dizzy on libations.

Know that my heart swells with love. I yearn to find those who can accept my gifts, who can take my hand, and share in my mirth.

Together we shall rebuild an empire.

<|endoftext|>

Zephyr

Snow Leopard paces before his hoard.
Panther's footfalls do not exist.
He looks over his shoulder.
She is not seen.
He whirls, claw and fang.
She is already past.
His blade drops.
She is not fooled.
His teeth are razors.
Her blade is sharper.
His blade is on her.
She is not there.
His blood is up.
Her blood is ice.
His blood colors the ground.
She moves to finish him.
He smiles after his strike is true.
She hisses.
He roars.
She slows, warmth and languor.
He jerks, chill and agita.
She brings the gale, hot and fierce.
He is still, until the next winter.

<|endoftext|>

Sola's Scar

Her wait was nearly over—Trestin could feel it as she climbed Cadmus Ridge.

Sunlight, amplified by snow, pierced her eyes now; she had ascended above the cloud line. She tilted her gaze down, focusing on the crags immediately before her. Her muscles cramped as she reached up for the next ledge. 

No holding back now. 

Over the radio, Lord Saladin's voice grew staticky: "Cabal incursion… Vex… up ahead." Without a word, Trestin's Ghost switched it off. There were others nearby to carry out the Iron Lord's orders. He wouldn't miss them. 

She doubted anyone would—her ex-teammates least of all. She had betrayed them, or so Sadhij had screamed: "We're supposed to be the thin line drawn before the Darkness, you traitor!" 

|| Thin indeed. So why not step over it? ||

Because they didn't have it in them. She checked. Cracked them both open and dug deep, just to be extra sure. But it wasn't there. That hunger, immense and buried, like the ocean under Europa's glacial crust. A riptide, undetectable from the surface, yet unrelenting in its pull. She never meant to betray anyone. She just wanted release. 

|| Soon, you will have it. Soon, you will be freed. ||

Muscles shaking with exhaustion, she threw her hand up and, at last, grasped snow. She had reached the top. 

For a moment, she laid on the embankment, chest heaving. When her vision cleared, she gasped. There it was, black-stone stark against the gleaming white. It seemed to pulse in time with her heart. Attuning to the desire churning within. 

From the back of her mind came a warm, familiar voice: "You're a goober." Yara. Suddenly, a different hunger bloomed in her, small and keening. Was it… loneliness? 

|| It is weakness. What lies before you is power.|| 

The pulsing intensified. She could feel the blood pumping through her veins as she stepped towards the obelisk, hand outstretched. She had never been so close—

 "Not one more step." A new voice called out to Trestin. Only this one was not in her head. She turned to find a Warlock standing a few yards away, sword drawn. "You must be Trestin. I am Aunor. I encourage you to come with me. Quietly." 

Trestin looked at her, then dove for the obelisk. 

The last thing she felt was steel. Pure, cold steel piercing through her heart.

<|endoftext|>

Crown-Splitter

A cargo carrier was parked outside of a short-stack residential building. Refracted light from the aura of the Traveler scattered shadows on the street in unusual ways, but no one was paying attention to the shadows today. Neighbors across the street in brownstones watched movers carry furniture out of the building.

The whirr-clack of two decommissioned Generation-1 Redjacks carrying an antique chaise lounge echoed down the street. The machine noise was met with the laughter of children pursuing them in amused delight. These Redjacks no longer wore the Vanguard insignia. Instead, they displayed a serial number and the logo for a long-term storage company.

"C'mon, kids, stay out of their way," warned a tall, broad-shouldered woman in a worker's jumpsuit. She wore the same logo as the Redjacks, the name Sonja embroidered on one sleeve. 

"How are we doing in there?" she called into the foyer.

"Two more chairs, the armoire, and then we gotta call the Forces of the City about all the munitions," answered another mover inside the building.

Sonja sighed, fixed the two children with a warning look, and walked up the steps into the foyer of the building. Inside, she found her coworker—Maron—cataloging items in a datapad while two more decommissioned Gen-1 Redjacks idled nearby.

The munitions Maron had mentioned were significant. Boxes of ammunition piled chest high, ferroplastic cases, stacks of loose body armor, and one large Sword partly wrapped in sturdy cloth bound in buckled straps.

"This was all in her apartment?" Sonja asked in disbelief. 

Maron just shook his head in response. "Wild, isn't it? Like an armory in there."

"Are next of kin picking this up?" Sonja wondered.

"She didn't have any," was Maron's somber response. He handed over his datapad to her, and she reviewed the checklist.

"So, what's happening to all of this? Why is it moving?" Sonja asked as she scanned the list.

Maron sighed with a shrug. "Building owner needs the apartment vacated. There's people moving away from the neighborhoods around the, uh, Eliksni Quarter, and he wants to clean the unit up for sale. People like stuff like that—historic." Maron made a sweeping gesture with one hand as if motioning to a marquee overhead. "A Guardian lived here."

Sonja looked up from the datapad with a crease in her brow. "A literal war hero dies fighting for us, and some landlord wants to monetize her space?"

"The hell are you yelling at me for?" Maron complained as he turned to the Redjacks, giving them instructions on what to carry next. "If she lived up in the Tower, I'm sure they'd have turned it into a shrine. But she didn't, and they won't."

He didn't wait for a response and followed the Redjacks as they carried an armoire out onto the street.

Sonja, left with her thoughts, looked down at the datapad again. She brushed her thumb over an item, swiped left and then down.

[DELETE ITEM?]

Sonja clicked the green check mark. She knew where at least one item belonged, and it wasn't in a storage locker. They could fire her later. Or maybe, she'd just quit.

Sloane would have liked that.

<|endoftext|>

Razor's Edge

"Glint."

"Yeah, buddy?" His Ghost's voice is eager. It had been a few hours since Crow last spoke.

"Is there anything you hate about yourself?" Crow turns in the seat of his tree saddle overlooking a sparsely forested valley split by clear Trostland waterways.

"Whoa. That's intense. Um… well—"

"It feels like my guts were pulled out in different directions, and I'm just… standing here, trying to reel them in. Nothing fits back the way it was." 

He had walked behind a god while she led him on a leash of his entrails—one he'd accepted in enthusiastic fashion. The thought of it was surreal, like another life presented in horrifying detail, in vivid waking visions. It was a wound worsened by the sight of the severity, and of course, he couldn't look away.

"Well, that's rather graphic," Glint chirps, processing. 

"Do you really have to put… uh, it… back in? Is it maybe OK being out?"

"Forget it," Crow relents. "Different question."

"Sounds good!" Glint agrees with an awkward chuckle.

"Do you think the Spear…" Crow stops himself and reforms his thoughts. "…Wherever Savathûn pulled Uldren from… he was always buried somewhere in me, right? Maybe I could use the Spear to step into that place. Step into my past and… put whatever's left of him to rest." Crow exhales and stares blanky into the horizon. "I want him gone. If the Spear could let me do that… I don't know."

"Oh… Crow, I don't think it works that way." Glint is quiet long enough for Crow to shift nervously. "Look Crow, we've been through a lot of bad things together. But you've never been the bad part about any of it. I wouldn't change a single thing about you… even a little."

Glint sinks into Crow's lap. "Besides… that last guy didn't have me."

<|endoftext|>

Lore

Lore tells broader stories from the Destiny universe. Unlock and read lore pages by completing Triumphs.

<|endoftext|>

A Gift of Madness

"The song of the grinding stone calls like pained sirens—shrill and uneven.
Its melody is a warning, yet still they come…
Adventurers. Bounty hunters. Scoundrels. And unwanted.
Here they find purpose.
Or hide from those worlds beyond.
Those polite lands, which 'heroes' strive to reclaim.
There is no reclamation here.
The Shore is ever-wild, and so shall it remain…
Ever the broken land where madness dwells and violence reigns."
—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

The questions no one asks…

Was the Bomber always mad? Or was he driven to it? Was the madness a gift—or a curse?

Did the struggle for survival outside the structure and ritual of the House system crack his mind? The things he'd seen? Done? The Shore asks much of those who call it home. Most simply find their end through the harsh will of these harsh lands or by the hand of the hardened agents who stalk its fractured expanse—bandits, cutthroats, cannibals, Awoken patrols, Guardian "heroes."

There are a billion ways to die among the jagged wilds of the Tangled Shore. To challenge those odds is no small feat. To do so while maintaining self, rarer still.

However, isn't it also possible the Bomber was this all along? Mad. Deranged. Eager to inflict destruction. Lustful for the chaos and death to follow.

The Seeding of the Accretion Fields. The Bombing of the Origin Libraries. Kaniks's handiwork has been linked to numerous tragedies, both as a rogue enemy of the Reef and in league with his scorned brothers and sisters with whom he grew strong—with whom he found the purpose he once lacked.

These points—an examination on the birth of madness—I raise to address a lingering concern.

Seek the Awoken libraries. Speak to Cryptarchs with knowledge of the Reef… the Shore. Scour the records of the Bomber's deeds. Feel the pain of those who suffered the fire of his devastation. Remember the Fields. Weep at the unimaginable loss when the Libraries fell.

Allow yourself the comfort of knowing the sinister creature is now dead and gone by Guardian hand. But linger on victory's pride for only a short while, because the truth I seek to tell has yet to be revealed, and it is this…

The Mad Bomber is dead—Kaniks is no more. Yet the Shore remains ever untamed. Despite valiant effort. Despite your incredible strength.

And if the Shore remains tangled, its edges ever shifting, ever dire… Then who else may it drive to madness? First long-lost survivors of the fabled Golden Age, then stray Awoken and discarded Fallen…

Maybe next, the warriors of the Light. Guardians.

After all, more will surely come. And with more, however righteous you may be, the odds shift further in the Shore's favor. In the favor of madness.

And if not another, Guardian… why not you?

<|endoftext|>

By Thy Tongue Be Damned

"Even here, the whispers persist.
Faint, but present."
—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

A Dreg fell. Left to die. A forgotten pirate set on a path toward salvation. His crew had raided the Moon looking for Ether. They found only death. And then he was alone.

Hiraks, the small. Hiraks, the timid, the weak was lost to the depths of the Hellmouth. A solitary scavenger down among the hollows where dead things dwell. How he survived is a story untold, an impossible tale known only to Hiraks himself.

In that secret is his strength.

For poor, weak, pathetic Hiraks came out of that hell as something other. Still Fallen. Still alone. But changed by all he'd seen and learned—his mind opened, set adrift through the wonders of all the nightmares he had never imagined.

Some say he spent his time hidden in the shadows of that cruel land scouring the mysteries of the Worlds' Grave. Others suggest he peered into a hateful shrine and found truth in the unutterable horrors whispered from the abyss.

Truth is, only Hiraks knows. Truth as simple as it is puzzling: Yes. Yes, he did. Scour the Grave. Hear the whispers. Only then could all that followed transpire.

For a lowly Dreg to rise from their docking to stand as a Baron is rare enough, but that a Fallen of any stature could crack the layers of understanding that barricade the known universe from the ascendant plane is more than improbable. It was impossible.

Until it wasn't.

For Hiraks succeeded where so few have. He crafted his own throne world and began a monstrous quest to expand his knowledge, etching its harshest truths upon his enemies. And his work has progressed unchecked.

It is his name the children do not speak when sharing tales of the Haunting of Nemesis. It is his blood that Paladins and Corsairs alike wish to spill for the Slaughter at Gaspra.

Hiraks, the Twisted. Hiraks, Ascendant. The mindbender whose tongue is a weapon, whose experiments seek to unravel sanity and reshape imagination that his subjects may become other—tools of his vile bidding.

And so, the warnings spread…

When the Fallen who speaks in the language of the damned calls, do your best not to listen, for once his words take hold, your will shall fade, replaced by its antithesis.

And then, like that poor, weak, fallen Dreg… you too will know darkness.

You too will be alone.

<|endoftext|>

Riddled with Lies

"Trust is your shield.
Trust is your weakness.
In the end, we all fall to betrayal."
—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

A simple riddle for you to consider…

"Only truth can conquer lies. But what is truth? And in whose eyes?"

What then of the Butcher of Bamberga? What then of the Psyche Hordes' slayer? The Terminus of the Gray Legion? The Sliver of the Shadowed Veil? The Bandit of Old Bassa? The Dire Siren of Valian's Reprieve?

What then of so many who are one—a single scourge, responsible for many varied tragedies?

The Trickster. The liar. Silver-tongued Araskes, the Wit.

She who bartered with the Spider and nearly cost him his life. She who swindled a dozen bounty hunters that she alone may profit. So many tales of Araskes' sleight of hand and tongue and mind. The enemy who has won battles where no battle was fought. Who has killed more rivals than have ever risen to her challenge.

What is known and unknown? None can say. And the sly prankster would have it no other way.

Of all the Barons marked by scorn, it is Araskes to fear, for her greatest weapon is the dissolution of truth. She will give you certainty, only to reshuffle the deck. She will grant you your desire, only to reveal it is truly regret.

If this realm can allow for gods, then she may be the first among devils—unknowable, unpure. Her tongue will cut you down long before your body falls. If you don't believe—if you find yourself questioning the depths of her deceit—ask yourself a simple question:

Did you kill her? And if you did, did she die?

If the answer is yes, her trap is set.

If your answer is…

It's okay. You don't have to say it. Maybe you will survive out among these wild shores longer than most.

Though maybe not as long as you'd like.

<|endoftext|>

Anguish, Ten-Fold

"Be wary of those who would do harm.
Yourself included.
Mind that you do not become undone.
For once infliction is tinged with joy, you are not but a beast.
And are we not more than that?
Do we not strive for better?"
—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

It was Reksis Vahn who saw to the final days of the House of Wolves. With cold hatred, he hunted and slaughtered their Servitors until none remained, and thus a rabid House did fall.

But Reksis Vahn's rage was not sated, as the Wolves alone were not the architects of his fury—all Fallen who clung to the ritual of House politics were his enemy, total and complete.

It is told that he was starved as a young Dreg. He watched in agony as others grew strong while he and his closest brothers and sisters were kept low. They were unworthy, pathetic, unwanted. But Reksis was ever aware. He saw the lie of the Archon's worship—how Servitors were revered upon a pedestal of godhood as a means to control the masses.

Maybe there was a time when the Fallen theology was one with greater concerns. No more. The Houses fractured, at war with one another. Old graces long since neglected in favor of a more desperate purpose—survival.

While cast low, Reksis found strength in his growing hatred. Only when he found common disdain among those twisted outcasts who would call themselves Scorned—who wore their hated derision as a badge of honor—did Reksis also find an outlet for his anger. His new brothers and sisters saw great value in his unchecked aggression. They were all a bit mad in their own right. All a bit twisted.

But where others slipped toward insanity, Reksis's mind and intent were clear—the agony of a terrible death was his aim. The target of his wickedness, the very Servitors he had been denied. The very machines that sustained the Fallen.

He would tear and slice and rend their metal until their hissing deaths rang across the Shore, the Reef… the entire system. He would make all who do not stand with the Scorned Barons feel the anguish he once felt, tenfold.

And he would do so gleefully, watching the life drain from their eyes.

<|endoftext|>

A Blind Eye Toward Tomorrow

"They who draw, mustn't always draw first.
For it is not speed that kills, but the eye—keen and sharp.
So, then, do not feel death.
See it. Know it.
And it shall manifest upon the trigger's embrace."
—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

Pirrha, the Phantom. Pirrha, the Blind. The Fallen Baron with the all-seeing eye and the crack-shot. The Awoken link him to the legend, "The Ghost of Hellrise Canyon," believing it was Pirrha, and Pirrha alone, who haunted the winding depths, picking off intruders and holding off Corsair raiding parties as his fellow Barons planned their violent reign in the maze of caverns near the canyon's heart.

He was unseen during the Wolves uprising, but many credit him with the assassination of the Queen's palace guard. None can verify, but each fell to a single shot—clean, precise, fatal.

But how can a blind pirate who had been discarded and scorned by his House become the deadliest shot this side of Mars?

This is where the Barons' true strength hides. They are each a devil worthy of your hate, but together they are so much more. Not simply devils, but Hell itself—manifest, angry, and aggressive.

Rumors and legend merge to tell of the Machinist's expert hand, the Rifleman's cybernetic eye and a link between his sight and the tracking systems on his rifle.

What he sees, he hits.

What he hits, he kills.

There is evidence of Fallen giving themselves to technology. Becoming other—becoming more—as they marry their physical selves to enslaved mechanics. The mercenary Taniks is one example—more machine than Fallen now, an abomination in the eyes of traditional Fallen belief. The Splicers and their augmentation through SIVA—a twisted experiment brought low by the mighty hand of the heroes of Iron. Is Pirrha any different?

The Barons and Taniks and the Splicers are each and all individual dangers, driven by their own ambition. They are more likely to wage war with one another than see their commonality.

Yet are they not of a kind? Are they not evidence of something greater wending its way through the Fallen's dying culture?

Are they not the warning signs of a new terrible evolution?

One can only wonder—and hope—these horrid amalgamations of life and technology are simply outliers and not a promise of tomorrows yet to come.

<|endoftext|>

The Ragged Valley Sprint

"Many are lost to the Shore's wayward ebb and flow.
The shifting mass gives and takes—pulls and tears.
The ground beneath ever uncertain, so tread carefully, as other dangers distract.
But death lingers, its grip loose but present.
Waiting to take hold. 
Waiting to embrace all who walk these tangled lands."
—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

The Ragged Valley is long and harsh and no valley at all. Not by traditional definition. Its hollow length runs between a series of lashed asteroids on the Shore's far western edge.

They call it a "valley" to be poetic, but in truth, it is simply the chaotic space between massive rocks that scrap and smash into one another in a violent dance. The distances from mass-to-mass ebb and flow without warning—a constant, deadly repositioning of the landscape. That ever-changing hollow is the Valley. Only the mad and desperate would dare run its length. With one exception…

Yaviks. The Rider.

The reason she made the run changes with the telling. You know she is neither mad nor desperate what with her skills on a Pike and killer determination. But the run itself—it's a legend as awe-inspiring as any Guardian's, save the fact Yaviks is a wicked beast and better off dead. The story goes…

She was running Ether… or making off with lost Golden Age tech. Some say Clovis Bray science. Others tell it was drivers from a forgotten Warmind. Or maybe she'd just dropped a Guardian and was running full-throttle from a fireteam set on revenge—a common theme this far out. Or was it pride? Did a Captain or a Kell or an Archon challenge her ability to ride? Did Fikrul? After all, their relationship is… complicated.

None of that matters. Not to me. Each version of the start is as interesting as the next. But the run itself? Her ride through the gnashing jaws of death?

Most Guardians who have heard it dismiss it. Don't want to give credit to one so infamous—the Scorned Baron with the blood on her hands, the loot in tow and her burners set to top speed—but she deserves it. Don't believe me. Ask Marcus Ren.

He wasn't there that day, but he'd heard tell and couldn't believe. So he made the run himself. Four goes. No dice. One resurrection. Four Sparrows busted to rubble.

Marcus Ren, the Sparrow Racing League champion and hero to speed junkies and race hounds City-wide, couldn't sprint that Valley. "Too random," he said. "Too chaotic. Can't read the rock one minute to the next. Can't read the angles."

But he tried again, and on the fifth go, he scraped through a narrow as the collision hit. He'd made it. The impossible was possible, though he refused to admit Yaviks could've done the same. Not that it mattered.

That Ren had come out alive proved it could be done, and if it could—why not Yaviks?

Not that Yaviks ever cared for validation. Not yours. Not Ren's. Not any Guardian's. Not any Fallen's. Not anyone's.

She took pride in recognition from her brother and sister Barons and no others.

<|endoftext|>

Truth Tinkered

"Out here, they who craft their own fate see tomorrow, while they who depend on faith rarely make it through today."
—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

If you had not heard of the Machinist before, know that others had. While her crimes may not live in infamy in the hearts of City-dwellers, the Reef and its Awoken know all too well her long reign of terror.

Elykris, the Bandit, they call her. Elykris, the Scourge. The Scorned Machinist—tinker-lord of a Houseless crew.

But should those names be new to your ears, there are others you trust who have felt the pain of her vile campaign.

Ask your Arach of the Machinist's deeds. Ask him about the Siege of Arran—the hijacked ship, its stolen contents and its Guardian protectors lost or captured at the hands of the scorned.

Speak to your Vanguard of the Solis Descent—more Guardians felled, and an armory stripped of its cache.

The lowly Dreg who challenged tradition only to be cast aside. The lowly Dreg who found her own strength in a troubling bond with forsaken kin. She grew strong as an outcast—grew mean. Then found her purpose with the guidance of a preacher of sorts and a new, more driven crew.

Now, then… the questions you must ask yourself…

Had you known of the Baron's deeds, had you heard tell of the Machinist's crimes—could you have changed the path tread from there to here? From yesterday to today?

Better yet… your Vanguard, your factions, your friends and allies—what all have they kept from you? If they spoke not of the Scorned Barons, if they issued no warning, is it because they simply did not see the full scale of the danger? Were they too distracted by wars within wars and interests of their own to issue the guidance needed for you to see the Shore for the threat it has always been? Perhaps given guidance that may well have saved countless lives?

Or at least one life in particular…

<|endoftext|>

An Evolution of Faith

"Find your honor not in your station, nor the words and gifts of those who seek control, but in yourself—in your actions, deeds, and soul. To look anywhere else is a lie."
—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

Fikrul was an Archon.

Then Fikrul took a fall—beaten, docked, and banished for heresies against Eliksni faith.

He should have died—alone and starved of precious Ether.

He did not. Instead, he found kin in the form of seven scorned. With them, he found purpose and power. As their legend grew, he found believers and new truth. His banishment was not penance, it was reward—for his convictions, for his courage.

Fikrul, the crazed fanatic. Fikrul, the heretic Archon who spoke against the very faith he once held dear. Scorned and forgotten—but only for so long.

Fikrul was a Dreg.

Before his banishment—before his clarity of purpose—Fikrul was a celebrated leader of Fallen faith and a savior to those who embraced his teaching.

Archons had long been elevated in Fallen society, but their stature grew, and their role shifted following the Whirlwind. As desperation took hold and the last of the Fallen raced across the stars in search of salvation, their dependence on machines evolved into a deep-rooted need—their weapons to fight, their ships to fly, their Servitors to survive.

That need became worship. That worship became faith. And the Archons—those who oversaw the care and consecration of the Servitors—were looked upon to provide hope through their words, teachings, and interpretations of the machines' wants, needs… desires.

But Fikrul saw another path—one that would later be mimicked and twisted by the techno-deviant Splicers in the Plaguelands of Earth while he and his explored their own darker interpretations of faith.

Fikrul is a Fanatic.

Scorned and abandoned.

Fikrul is all who strive to regain strength of self and purpose. He is a survivor. He is the outcast priest of the broken plains, and his sermon is death and all the glory that follows.

In Fikrul's eyes, and those of the outcasts who rallied to his philosophies, machines were not superior. They were not gods. They were tools. Instruments to be mastered and controlled and manipulated in service of Eliksni pride. None should grovel for Ether. None should have their honor bound to the whims of manufactured deities.

But the evolution of Fikrul's faith did not end there. If the machines—the very things that had regulated the whole of their existence—were tools, why not life itself? Why not death?

There are many tales of the time between Fikrul's fall and his rise again as spiritual leader of the Scorned Barons—his struggle to find strength as a battered Dreg, his journeys across the system to challenge his faith, his joining with the other outcasts who were scorned, and his eventual union with his "father." The only thing that matters, however, when confronting the dangers of Fikrul is this: He is a creature of faith.

His faith is the antithesis of all who stand in the Light. That faith has raised an army. That army will baptize all who challenge its purpose in an unending sea of death. They will never stop. They will never give in. Because they know they are right.

And everything you stand for is wrong.

<|endoftext|>

A Scorned Path

"Surviving is a whole lot easier when your enemies are dead."
—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

It was Elykris, the Machinst, who'd begun hoarding the Servitors. And Reksis, the Hangman, who slaughtered them at every turn. Two allies driven by opposing forces—one science and the unmaking of faith, the other rage and its relentless push to destroy.

There had long been tension between the two, as Reksis had, more than once, slipped into the Machinist's workshop to inflict himself on the Servitors caged there.

Fikrul, the Fanatic—their spiritual leader and one-time Archon Priest—watched patiently as their rivalry grew. He saw strength in their ire. He saw fire and fury, but also more—a new path forward. One that could join their passions and drive them further—a whole stronger than its warring parts.

Fikrul waited, biding time as tensions rose and threatened to splinter the Barons' loyalties. Only when Elykris could take no more, on a night when she caught the Hangman prepared to slaughter her latest haul of lesser Servitors, did Fikrul step in.

Fikrul motioned to Elykris and said, "Bring me a Servitor." As Reksis hissed with anticipation, she hesitated, but Fikrul was patient. "Where is your trust?"

Elykris released a Servitor from its bondage.

Fikrul motioned the Servitor closer, then turned to Elykris. "You have gathered many, Machinist. Hundreds. Maybe more. Our own supply—our life force fed by slaved mechanics." Elykris nodded to the Servitor as it inched closer to the Archon's open arms—welcoming the once revered orb as one would a child.

The other Barons began to bark, a rhythmic warriors' chant.

"For all the value in your work… it is not enough to feed ourselves." Fikrul hugged the Servitor. There was a tenderness to the embrace. A sorrow. "We must also starve our enemies, as you were once starved." With a blur, Fikrul's lower arms unsheathed and triggered a pair of polished, sparking Shock Blades. "As were we all."

The Servitor, still held with the clutches of the Archon's powerful upper arms, cried a shrill, digital wretch—pain mixed with confusion as the blades carved its outer shell and plunged deep into the core of its systems. Ether hissed and sprayed.

Fikrul released the machine's silent shell, and it clanged lifeless to the ground. He turned to Elykris. "Do you see?" Elykris smiled. She was ever the brightest among them, though her focus could lose clarity when she became frenzied.

The Barons had long been trouble for the Awoken and Fallen of the Reef, but that trouble had been limited to hit-and-run tactics. What Fikrul had just presented was a new way.

Fikrul stepped to Reksis. "Do you see?" The brute barked in response, "Kill them all!"

Fikrul laughed. "Not 'all,' Hangman. Just the ones we do not need." 

The Barons cheered as Fikrul continued, "Every Servitor—any Servitor—bound to a House is now a target. Until none remain but those upon whom we feed."

<|endoftext|>

These Bad Lands

"Don't fool yourself. These rocks and this metal may be lashed together, but they ain't tamed. This far out, the only law is outlaw. The only justice? Last rites.

"So, walk careful—head on a swivel, hand on the hilt, all that—cuz that glare you feel is the narrowed eyes of ill-intent aimed at your honor, your heart… your head.

"And know this: Your every step is set upon blooded ground. The whole of the Shore… This is a wasteland built where a few sought to survive. In the dim light of a lost age, this wild frontier was a fleeting hope-turned-final restin' place—a graveyard at the end of existence.

"Some say you can still hear the screams—echoes of the lost and damned ringing from just out of sight. Don't believe 'em. That's just the stretching and bending of the supports—old metal moaning in the celestial breeze, the grinding of scrap and stone calling out, giving warning.

"These tethered lands be not safe. This twisted reef be not kind."

—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's Translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"


"There's no way that's a direct translation."
—Cayde-6

<|endoftext|>

No Heroes Here

Every inch of ground beyond the City walls is dangerous—safety not guaranteed—and of all the inches across every world in this dead and dying system, none are harder than every single inch of the Tangled Shore.

This is not simply untamed space. It's worse. It's outlaw territory, where the worst of a bad lot come to find their fortune, ply their trade, or run from their sins.

No one who has ever walked the Shore's broken stone has come back clean. Out here you've gotta break the rules just to get by. Oh, your moral compass? You better hope it's on the fritz, 'cuz doing the right thing will only get you killed. Unless you're strong enough to do it the wrong way.

So, walk tall—the locals can sense the meek. Stand firm—backing down will only see you trampled. And aim true—each miss could be your last. Otherwise, go home.

The Shore ain't no place for heroes, anyway.

<|endoftext|>

The Lonely and the Dead

"Out here, the lonely fall in the company of those bound by the purest need: survival.

"Find this truth. If not in your heart, in your mind. If not your mind, then your soul—the deepest part of you that connects to the most basic truths. To live for tomorrow, you have to fight for today.

"Know this. Understand it. Live it. Find those likeminded survivors you can look to as kin. Only then can survival be within reach, because to walk the Shore unbound is to invite death."

—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's Translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

<|endoftext|>

The Sad Story of Eldred Rush

"I'll tell ya of Eldred Rush. He didn't come out this way looking for trouble. He ain't a fool, neither. He knew trouble waited. He just didn't care. Couldn't, some would say.

"Eldred was a prospector of sorts, digging around these parts in search of memories he considered gold. He had a mission, personal and pure: Find the rock on which his people fell. Some tell that he was the first Guardian to walk this deep. It's not true, but fits his tale and makes for a better legend.

"Lonely Eldred walked these lashed lands cycle-upon-cycle, avoiding conflict when he could, but always hitting back when push came to shove. He was a gentle man, but violent when riled.

"Eventually he found the spot where ancient survivors of an ancient collapse huddled and died. There, at the site of all he had lost—in an old life that was long since beyond his grasp—Eldred buried the dead he could not remember but felt in his heart.

"Never saw Eldred again. No one did."

—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

<|endoftext|>

Gotta Do More Than Shoot

"A lotta things to consider when sizing up a gunfight. Most just focus on steely eyes and steady nerves, and those have value—but the best of 'slingers weigh so much more.

"The light in the sky or lack thereof. The temp and the breeze—how cool, how warm, which direction is the wind hitting and how hard? Further still: the ground beneath your boots. Is it solid or soft? Shifting or slick? All elements that speak to the moment of truth.

"The wear of the holster. The feel of the grip.

"But first and foremost, the best 'slinger will say never pick a fight with unfamiliar tools—unless the situation dictates an unavoidable outcome or in those instances when honor comes a-callin'."

—Excerpt from C.C. LaGrange's translations of "Writings and Observations from the Tangled Shore: A Fallen Text"

<|endoftext|>

Deal

All joking aside—maybe I've made mistakes. Maybe some more recently than others.

Hard to believe, I know, but maybe it's true. Maybe.

Here's the thing about mistakes: you learn from them. Again, this is assuming the theoretical concept of me having made some mistakes is true. So, yeah, maybe that's what I'm doing. Trying to learn from these very hypothetical slipups. Turning inward, they call it. "They" being Ikora. Eris calls it something different. Eris calls a lotta things something different. 

I miss that girl.

But here I am stalling—buying time.

This ain't easy for me.

Thought it would be. Easy, I mean. Or, at least… easier than this. Thought a lot of things would be easier. Hell… Thought a lotta things about a lotta things. But maybe that's what makes me the person I am. Makes any of us part of humanity—all our big thoughts and big plans, hopes and dreams and all that squishy nonsense.

OK, fine, look: If I'm playing at honesty, and I think that's what I'm doing here, maybe those hopes and dreams are all that really matters. Just, not losing sight of them is the hard part. Life is full of those little distractions that fudge the edges, make those hopes and dreams a little blurrier.

That's the power of "maybes," I suppose—the temptation of… playing both ends against the middle.

Maybes provide… wiggle room. And I like my edges fudgy. And I loooooves me some wiggle room. But if I'm gonna stay true to this whole rambling "dear diary" how-do-ya-do business, guess what I'm sayin' is…

Guess what I'm saying is, I'm sick of "maybes." And, if I'm a straight shooter—and I'm nothing if not—then I gotta shoot straight… even when there ain't a gun in my hand.

So, let's… let's keep this between me and you, OK?

Here's the deal: My name is Cayde-6…

And this is my story.

<|endoftext|>

Call

Now, to be clear, yeah, the plan is to tell it like it is, but don't expect every little detail to play out. I'm gonna hit the important stuff, sure, but what I'm really after here is a sense of… a sense of me. Because once you understand me, you just might understand where I'm coming from, why I do the things I do, and why I've done the things I've done.

So, read between the lines if you have to, but end of the day? Everything that matters should be readily apparent. If not, you're not paying attention.

So here goes…

Us Exos are haunted.

Sounds ominous, I know, and maybe a bit of a stretch. But really, it's the best word—kinda sets the stage in a way the raw facts don't.

See, Guardians have all got past lives. But unless you returned with any definitive info on your person or in proximity (I'm looking at you, Bray), that past life, or lives, was, or were, wiped clean. Gone. Reborn in the Light and all, you become what you become.

Exos, though?

We've got ghosts in our machines. Not capital-G "open doors and know things" Ghosts. I mean, like fragments of— I don't know, pieces of something that could be memory. Whatever it is, it's enough to give us a starting point to maybe, possibly, imagine who we were before we became who we are. And then there's the dreams—but I ain't touching that with a ten-foot Arc Staff.

Me? I'm one of the lucky few. The fudgy flashes of that old Exo life weren't all I had to go on. See, the "me" that was in my life before my trusty capital-G Ghost found me kept journals, like mementos—fragments of my prior life that give me a baseline of who I was.

The journals are personal, and I keep personal close to the chest. I've shared a few pages, sure, but only with right-minded types who could find a little value in seeing the man behind the myth.

Yeah, "myth," I said it. Who are we kidding? You've heard of me. Who hasn't? Point is… I don't make a show of personal business.

First, because it's MY fuel to burn. Second, because Big Blue ain't a big fan of his Guardians poking around what they used to be—something about duty, rules, not losing sight of why we were chosen. But more than any of that… most of us "Chosen Ones" don't have the luxury of a past, so rubbing it in doesn't seem right.

Look, all I know is…

When I rejoined the land of the living, the pre-Light version of me was kind enough to lend a guiding hand. I took that hand, gave it a high five, and followed its example the best I could.

All this time later, I may not know my true purpose—I leave the big-ticket, existential questions to the Warlocks—but I know this…

My calling is to do good. Maybe not always to "be" good, ya know, but do good. There's a difference.

And if I don't always go about it in a manner that fits the textbook definitions of "hero" or "team player"—I'm looking at you, Big Blue—just know…

I might dance to my own tune, but we're all at the same hoedown…

Or something like that.

<|endoftext|>

First Stake

Made a deal with myself, long ago…

If people needed help and I could do the helping, I would—so I do.

Yeah, when that help returns a bit of loot or goodwill my way, all the better, but there's never been a cache I robbed or a stash I hid that didn't offer something to those in need. Not many people know that. Fine by me. I don't like to brag.

True, I never wanted the Vanguards' life, but that's not because I didn't see its value. Just that its value fit others better than me. Besides, few can do what I do. Hell, few would even try. I mean, come on… It's me.

The places I've been. The trouble I've seen… caused… whatever. Was a time Shiro, Andal, the crew, and me would do more good doing bad than the mightiest Titan ever dreamed.

The trails we blazed. The supplies we recovered—pilfered, filched, scammed, stole, found, uncovered, looted. We weren't the only ones, but the world outside the City got a whole lot bigger thanks to us.

Yeah, sure, I don't get out as much, but I'm fixing to change that.

Zavala won't like it—never does. Ikora will try to convince me otherwise—always does. But we've seen how precious our Light is… How fleeting. Gotta use it while we got it…

Do good. Be good. Push the limits. Take back what's ours.

And that was my first bet… All in. Day 1. I bet on myself.

I saw the edge of those dark ages. You've heard the stories. If not, look them up. Scary stuff. Real eye-opener. I've seen the City grow. And fall. And grow again—stronger. I seen the best of us, and the worst. And I'll fight to ensure we stick around long enough to see that "best" turn to better and that "worst" fade to memory.

So, yeah… I'm a loudmouth and a braggart, and I'm quick with a blade and fast on the draw. And if you need it found, fought, killed, saved, or stashed for safe keepin', few can do it better. But in the end…

I'm only good because he was good.

I like to think I learned that from myself—that the notes left by the "me-that-was-before-me" set the stage. That Five figured, back in those dark days, that Six might not turn out all that nice and end up a Seven. So that former "me" wrote me a road map to the version of him—or me—that would be a better man.

So, whatever hand I was dealt, when the bet was placed and it was time to call, no matter what—I had an Ace and a Queen up my sleeve.

Meaning I couldn't lose.

Meaning the better man would always win.

<|endoftext|>

Fold

Ever heard of Andal Brask?

Ya should've. One of the old heroes. Before Black Gardens and Hive gods and that Cabal-shaped mess we just cleaned up.

Yeah, he was… somethin'. Hunter part of the Vanguard before yours truly. More importantly…

He was my friend. A brother, even.

Andal and I used to run with one heck of a crew. This was before he got himself roped into fireteaming up with the top brass. Oh, we were legendary. Ran scouting parties looking for survivors to lead back City-side. Mapped lost sites where old tech or supplies might still be worth the salvage. Hunted plenty of Fallen. Never an easy task. Especially in the early days.

And by "early days," I mean my early days. Lot of Guardians been around longer than me, but even in my newborn new life, the City had a lotta growing up to do. And us Guardians had a hell of a lot to learn. Trouble is, we only ever seem to learn the hard way…

The Red War. That time Crota woke up cranky and slapped around more Guardians than I can count. Twilight Gap. And all the bad that happened before my time. The Iron Lords and their tussle with SIVA. …Six Fronts.

And those are just the headline grabbers. So many lessons learned. So many lives lost. But, in truth…

I've always felt it's the day-to-day struggles where we learn the most about the world, about ourselves. Being inside the City walls, sure, we're reminded of what we're fighting for. But outside the walls…?

It puts a face to all we've lost. Puts a reality to how far we've fallen. Abandoned roads, crumbling cities—rust and ruin, ruin and rust.

But if the City gives us reason to fight for the now, those old, dead places always give me hope for tomorrow. Rusted, broken skeletons or not… If you squint, you can see all we were and all we can be.

That's why, when Andal left the road and joined the Vanguard, me and the crew hoped he'd get the others—Osiris, Zavala, even the Speaker—to see what we saw. The City was a refuge, yeah, but if we hid too long, let all we'd lost get picked apart by pirates and warmongers, we'd lose our humanity.

Just like we lost Andal.

<|endoftext|>

Flop

I play nice with the Vanguard now, but it wasn't always that way. Not that we were enemies. We just tended to see things through a different lens.

But Andal…? Playing nice was his forte. He was always more… I think "diplomatic" is the word?

Our big play back in the day was… get the Vanguard to loosen their leash—let us explore, let us lead a new era of expansion—and the riches of the system would be ours.

"Ours" as in everybody's, of course. Though we'd get our cut.

In hindsight, we were waaay too ambitious.

Didn't see it in that light at the time. But, then again, you never do.

When Andal joined the Vanguard, he was our inside man. It was a sweet deal—he would drop intel on new stashes or Fallen movements, and Shiro and I would jump the gun, hit 'em first, claim what we could, deliver the rest to the City.

Maybe we skimmed a little off the top—nothing excessive, just a "finder's fee."

Probably shouldn't be putting all this out there for anyone to judge… What's the statute of limitations on misspent youth? Whatever… Long time ago. But it speaks to what I'm getting at…

I always tried to do right, even if I occasionally got sidetracked. Andal joining the Vanguard was a gift in some ways, a bummer in others. More importantly…

He'd made a deal, given his word—to me and to himself—when he took the Dare.

I won, he lost.

So he left the road. Joined the bigwigs up in the Vanguard. And he reminded me of a lesson I've always known, but every now and then would forget…

You give your word, you keep it.

But the longer Andal was up in that Tower, "caged"—my word, never his—the more he saw things "the Vanguard way." Looking back, he was only ever doing the right thing. Seeing him change and, in truth, grow as a Guardian and as a person…

I've never admitted this, but… I thought less of him. My best friend, my closest ally—all because he'd stuck to his word. Accepted the Dare, and even when he came up on the bad end, he never wavered from doing exactly what he said he'd do…

Join the damn Vanguard. Leave me and Shiro to have all the fun.

I thought he was a sucker.

Turns out, the only sucker was me.

<|endoftext|>

Raise

Case you can't tell, I ain't the best storyteller. I can be. Boy howdy, can I rip a yarn! Don't believe me? Ask C.C. Don't believe him? Ask the Colonel. Those two have heard things you wouldn't believe.

Just that, this…? What I'm doing here, the whole "based on a true story" thing? I can feel myself trying to talk around what I want to say, fill it with the ol' poop and circumstance. I'm trying, though. Fighting my… better angels, to get to what I need to say. And what I need to say starts with Andal.

Andal and the Dare.

My Dare. Our Dare.

The Hunters' Dare.

It's a stupid thing.

But it's an honor thing.

And it cost me my friend—I cost me my friend.

But before the Dare, we had Taniks. Hell… After the Dare we had Taniks. After my Dare we had Taniks. Always comes back to Taniks, don't it?

For the uninitiated, Taniks is a Fallen mercenary with no House but the House that pays him. Most Fallen won't deal with him. But when a Captain, or an Archon, or a Kell needs something done and their crews ain't cutting it—or, when they want a job done real hush-hush—they call Taniks.

Back in the day, me, Shiro, Andal, and a few others got on radars we'd rather stay off. The Fallen Houses put out bounties. Lotta Glimmer on our heads. Lotta Ether. Taniks took the gig. Only we didn't know. There'd been stories of a renegade Fallen dropping bodies, but nothing ever concrete, so we just brushed them off as more of the same. Nothing we couldn't handle, even on an off day.

I mean, we were all aware the Fallen were dangerous—big-time threat, each day, every day. But a solitary Fallen boogeyman, free of House, cutting down Guardians one by one? Ha, yeah right.

Until "yeah right" was standin' in front of us.

First impression… He was a big boy. Bad attitude.

Second… He was standin' over the body of Nian Ruo. Didn't know her well, but we'd done a few runs. That day was supposed to be an in-and-out'er. But then… Taniks.

Nian never got back up, and Shiro's boy Lush lost his Ghost—full-on RTL, returned to Light. Gone and done.

The whole scene was a blur. Lost our haul and hauled our butts outta there. Still not sure how we lost Taniks and his boys. Just lucky we did.

'Course, ditchin' that troublemaker wasn't the end.

Shiro and I got back, filled Andal in on the what-went-down soon as we found him. This was before his Vanguard days. He'd been running a second grab on a cache out west. Wasn't back till the next night.

We told him about Nian. Lush was freaking out about his Ghost. Couldn't blame him. Still can't.

Then we did the dumb thing.

We got cocky.

<|endoftext|>

Turn

Taniks didn't announce himself. Didn't say a word. Just laughed a few times and tried like hell to kill us all. But we knew it was him. The stories matched the story, ya know? Which meant the boogeyman had a face—the boogeyman was REAL.

We could hunt "real."

We could track "real."

We could end "real."

Andal said something like, "The hunter is about to become the hunted at the hands of the Hunters he'd hunted." I know. Don't laugh. I didn't. He was a great guy, even if his humor was… a bit… "forced" seems like a nice way to put it. But he wasn't wrong.

Lush wanted to join up—a little payback for his little Light—but we nixed that. Loved the kid, but no Ghost meant no way. Poor fella died his final death, RTL, less than a cycle later; went on a run solo, didn't tell anyone, never came back. Shiro used to spin stories about him—still does. Like he's still out there, living a life we only dream of—traveling unknown roads, digging up untold treasures.

My favorite's the one about the Rat King—how Lush joins up with a folktale, and together they fight the wars we don't see. It's just fantasy, but I like it. It's the kind of bedtime story I used to tell Ace as he was fighting off sleep, when he was here.

But he's not here.

Neither is Lush.

Neither is Andal.

And someday, neither will I.

Didn't have a Hunter Vanguard back then, what with Kauko Swiftriver finally being declared dead after two years MIA and his Dare nowhere to be found. Speaker said it was on the rest of us Hunters to figure it out.

That first night back, Andal and I were up late. Not a new thing. He drank. I drank. He got tanked. I'm a robot. And we made the pact.

Dare issued and accepted.

See, there was that opening on the Vanguard, Hunter slot. We both wanted Taniks. Only one would get the killing blow, and the glory. The loser had to hang 'em up… and lock themselves away in a Tower. Leave the lonely roads to real-dealers.

We both laughed.

Wow. I wish I could hear him laugh again.

Just once.

Funny how all the cool kids leave the party too soon.

<|endoftext|>

All-In

Hey, kid.

I know I don't write you very often, ya know? But it's better than never.

Ain't easy for me to find the words. I mean, it is, I find them. But I know they're not always the right ones. Too much flash. Too much looking out for how I'm looking, not enough just telling it how it is. That's why I'm doing this, Ace. That's why you and me are having these words. Easier to say them than scrawl 'em. This way, now that I'm doing it, it feels more honest, if I'm being… Feels more true.

Thing is—and I'm sorry it's like this, but… I can only talk to you… in my mind. In my heart… This is how one-to-one works now.

Father and son.

Cayde and his firecracker Ace.

What am I doin'?

Reality is… ain't no telling who I'm talking to. Hell… Could be me, the "me after me."

Hi, me! Lookin' good! Sorry you can't remember all you can't remember. That's just an Exo's lot in life. Though, if you are me sitting on the other side… I gotta tell ya…

I never wanted this. YOU never wanted this.

I made it real clear… To the Big Z. To Ikora. Banshee. Amanda. My pal Jimmy down at the ramen spot …that if anyone ever finds that Deep Stone Crypt thingy—

I stop counting at six, no higher. Ya hear me? No. Higher.

Think there's just something about the number 7 that gives me the heebie-jeebies—unlucky, overrated, I don't know, just a number with bad mojo in my book. So, if you've got a 7 in tow, or above, someone's changed the game. Someone's not playing nice.

Might wanna do something about that.

If you haven't listened to the earlier files—the start of this ramble—find 'em. Hear 'em. You might not want to take lessons from an unknown reflection, but trust me… whatever kind of man you are… you can be better. Also…

There are journals. Don't call 'em a diary. A three-eyed gal with a preference for deep holes and nightmares always called 'em diaries. Don't take cues from her. Anyway…

End of the day, New Me—if that's you—you get to choose who and how you want to be. The hope is maybe I can guide you a bit, like the "me before me" did. 

And when you get to the part about the kid and the girl—my Ace and my Queen…

They're yours, too. By right. Because they are… all yours, a gift. And you'll be the better for it.

And, if you don't feel that thing—that soft spot in the middle of all that circuitry—when you get to them, then, if you are me… you aren't like me at all. And that means you're trouble.

The good kind, or the bad, impossible for me to know. All I can do is give you the tools to raise you right. 

That goes for you, too, Ace. If you're listening.

Hell. It goes for anyone. Strangers. Old friends. New enemies…

Learn from me. Be better than me. Because I'd really hate to think whoever you are is someone I wouldn't get along with.

<|endoftext|>

River

Honor? It's tricky—means different things to different folks.

Like your word… Well, your word's your word. You GIVE it. You KEEP it. Do that, regardless of all the rest, and that's honor right there. And, let me tell ya, kid…

Honor matters. It's a weapon in its own right. And a shield. Zavala knows. Ikora knows. Saladin and Shaxx, they probably know a little too much. All the best Guardians know.

People trust your word, they'll trust you. And trust? It's hard to come by and easy to lose. Give your word. Keep your word. And when all else fails, you'll find you have friends there to pick up the slack.

Even if you don't. You find yourself all alone, odds stacked, final curtain set to drop—at least you can go out knowing you did the right thing when it was asked.

Now, don't get me wrong. The "right thing," like honor, can be a malleable concept. It shifts and bends.

I'm getting poetic here. "Waxin' Warlock," we called it. Not my intent, but sometimes I can see the value in their thinkin'—their way with words. Ah, look at that: there's another lesson…

Find value in another.

I don't have much in common with a ramrod Titan or a floofy Warlock, but that's the key.

<|endoftext|>

Showdown

Back to honor. Back to Andal.

Andal was my brother. Figuratively, but I find, more often than not, the family you unearth along the way is more real than the family you thought was the… Never mind. Andal was my brother. Period.

Taniks was the four-armed, murderin' Guardian hunter who… Yeah.

Andal and I… we made a bet. Only "bet" ain't the right word. Not among Hunters. What we did meant more. We offered a dare.

The Dare.

I to him. Him to me.

Kill Taniks or get chained to Vanguard duty. Hunt the hunter and come out on top, or wear a leash. This was our honor. Our word.

The Hunter Dare dates back to nobody-knows-when. There are all kinds of stories about the "First Dare," but there's no way to discern the truth of a thing done who-knows-when by who-knows-whom.

It was the First Dare that time a Hunter…

Oh, and mind you, this was waaaaay before anyone even imagined calling themselves "Hunters" or "Titans" or "Warlocks." This was Risen days. The Chosen weren't organized back then—no code—and didn't get it, no matter how much their Ghosts talked their ears off. Back when the first ones got their spark lit, they were just as likely to be a self-involved tyrant as a decent human being.

Ask me to tell you about the "Warlords" sometime. Ha! Bunch o' newly rezzed tough guys misusing the Light like a bunch o' ignoramuses… Ignorami? Regardless… Not a fan. But who is?

Am I ramblin'? Anyway…

That first challenge of honor between those who'd one day call themselves Hunters? Was it the Tuvel Valley Jump? The Shaderunners' Sprint? The Moonlight Draw? Kuba Sul's Last Stand? The Great Scrounge Hunt? The Lesser Scrounge Hunt? No one knows. I sure as heck don't.

But which was first don't matter. They were all first. They were all the Dare to set the table and inspire other Dares. What matters is, once a Dare was offered… if it was taken—it was took. It was on you. It was in you. Not metaphysically. I'm not talking Warlock hocus-pocus. I'm talking honor.

Accepting the Dare is giving your word.

So, Andal and I, we offered, accepted, and doomed ourselves, because we didn't take into account the depths of my arrogance.

Seems my arrogance is where it always falls apart…

<|endoftext|>

Winner Take All

Taniks was a pain.

Turns out that wasn't the real problem—though it was high on the list at the time.

The real problem? The freak's STILL a pain. He ain't no Guardian, but the dude's been dead and not more times than I can track. "Died" twice by my hand alone. Second time I even looked to deliver some insurance, but he was hauled off by his goons before I could add more lead to the collection I'd deposited in his chest… and neck… and gut… and head.

But that second time don't matter. I mean, it does, sure, but the important bit here is our first go-round…

When Andal and I made our bet that wasn't a bet but really a dare… THE Dare… we were eager and ready to track Taniks and hit him with some payback. I had the good luck of finding Taniks first. Had the good luck to kill him, too. So I thought.

So we all thought.

What followed was a party. Osiris even showed up. He and the Speaker had sent Saint-14 after Taniks as well, and maybe Sainty's one hell of a Titan—but we're Hunters. No way were we losing the kill.

Looking back, I wish maybe we had.

Andal kept his word—joined the Vanguard. I tried talking him out of it. We'd made the Dare in a compromised state… Shiro and I'd just been roughed up, Nian was gone, Lush was broken—emotions were high, liquid was flowing. Andal wasn't buying it. Neither was I. Not really.

The Dare's the Dare. To back out would've been a mark—would've called Andal into question to every Hunter out there. Even to me. I never would've admitted it to him. But he'd know.

Things got a little weird between us once he joined the Vanguard. All my doing. And I missed him. Didn't like seeing one of the best rule-breakers and world-walkers anyone had ever seen bogged down with bureaucrats. But the weirdness passed… Brothers don't stay mad at brothers, that's just the way it is.

As we settled into the new norm, the good times started to roll. They kept on rolling, too…

For a while, anyway.

<|endoftext|>

Bluff

I don't play well with loss. I just don't. It's something I tend to avoid. Actively.

It's weird, but… that's where my Queen comes in. And before you make a Reef joke, or mention that witch and her Witches, or her mopey little brother… Don't.

My Queen is not THAT Queen.

My Queen is love.

My Queen is my heart.

My Queen is… hard to explain.

She is my memory of love. My understanding of it… only exists through her.

But she's not here. She's long gone. So I cling to the feeling I get when imagining her, and when I do… I am oh so content.

But it's a struggle.

We lose so much in this life. Any life. All lives, really…

But this life… This Last-Safe-City, end-of-all-things kinda life…?

Even when we win, it seems like all we do is lose.

Scratch that. I don't believe that. If there's one thing I'm not, it's a defeatist. I mean, I defeat. I definitely defeat. One might even say defeating things is my job. ONE of my jobs. One of MANY. 

What's not my job is pessimism. Just not my thing. I'm a high-octane optimist and nothing but hugs. Mostly. Not always. Always gets annoying. But mostly… I'm the life of the party.

Not that you could tell from all this woe-is-me soul baring I've been laying on thick for, what, eleven entries now? Ten? In fact, at this point, if you're still listening, you're a braver soul than I.

But, where was I? Oh, yeah…

Optimism.

I'm full of it. Amongst other things, if certain unnamed individuals are to be believed. But, yeah… Each new day we're here is one heck of a reward… Heck of a win. And we should own that. Enjoy it. Embrace it. But never take it for granted.

Heh. Had a Warlock friend who used to say, "Take it for granite." Like the rock. Like g-r-a-n-i-t-e. Smartest guy I've ever known, but maybe he wasn't, ya know? "For granite." Heh. Almost as dumb as his catchphrases.

Come on, Cayde. Stay on target…

Each new day. Helluva thing. Embrace it. Enjoy it. But never forget…

It's a hard life.

And when friends fall. When brothers fade. When your Queen… When…

When we lose the things that matter… Well, a lotta people can use that—own it. That pain. That loss. They find a way to motivate—to celebrate.

For all my charms, seeing the good in the gone ain't one.

And my Queen helps me through that. Because I believe she was something special. She was good. She had to be. And I… Yeah, I do. So damn much.

When the others I've lost along the way start to weigh me down, I think of her, and she just overwrites everything else.

That's how strong her pull is. That's how big the hole she left is… Massive. It devours.

She swallows all other bad things. Not sure it's healthy, the way I deal with loss. But it's my way. It's what works for me. And it makes me happy. Thinking of her…

Makes. Me. Happy.

And the loss fades away.

<|endoftext|>

Bad Beat

Been trying hard to give you a sense of what matters to me, but also to find a way to talk about the things that, uh… that scare me. "Thing," really—singular. And that thing is… loss. Losing. I'm a poor loser, I admit it. I run from it. Full speed. Others don't. Others accept it. But everything I said about my Queen is true; she is my shield.

She is also a lie.

I don't know when I made her up. Or better… I don't know when I decided to believe in a life I don't know and can never truly own. Was it during this life? Was my rebirth as a Guardian—or the void of everything I was before—what drove me to invent comfort? Possible. Even likely. But I'm not sure.

I do have flashes of memory of the life I had before I was a Guardian, but that's all they are, flashes—quick flickers of people and places in my dreams or in that space between a bullet and getting rezzed.

I see a woman there, and she's all I've ever known of a life long since gone. I feel love for her. Is that love a memory, or am I simply loving the memory? I've convinced myself of the former. I've concocted a truth to make myself whole.

The kid. The woman. I do not know them. They are not real.

But I wish I did. And I wish they were.

They're just the two best cards I could find to keep up my sleeve when the odds were stacked against me.

I made them real in my mind and in my heart.

I fell in love with the idea of them, and I crafted a truth that allowed me to feel.

In truth, it was selfish.

When I came to for the first time, I felt so alone. Broken. My Ghost tried to comfort me. But this life felt hollow. So I ran.

But the flashes… Like daydreams, they promised something more. Something other than suffering and war. So I clung to them. And I built my truth. And it made me a better man.

Some would dispute that fact. Some would say, "A good man who lies to himself is good only because he hides from the truth." But I disagree. I think, in this world, you need to find what is best in you and cling to it. That's all I did. I found what moved me, and I fought for it.

Without Ace, and without my Queen to listen to me, to hear me, to see me… there's no telling who I would've become.

But I know.

And I know there's a chance it wouldn't have been very nice.

So that's what I am offering to you here: a chance. Look at my life. Look at the things I've said, the things I've done. See how the promise of a simpler life and true, pure love—even if it was all just a game—see how it drove me, directed me…

Now go find your own.

I know this confession isn't as clean as you may like, but then again…

It's not a confession.

It's a warning.

Find the path to your best self and walk it. Because the alternative is a lonely road. Don't you ever forget it.

Otherwise, I may just have to come back.

And kick your ass.

See ya later, pal.

—Cayde-6

<|endoftext|>

Pressure

She was the first Ghost to arrive, but it wasn't long until there were dozens of them, scanning every pile of debris that remained of Tower North. They came in search of the one who guided their journeys, the one who once spoke for the Traveler.

"He called me Dejana. Before I met him, I didn't know what to call myself." She was speaking to a red-shelled one, who hovered where the Speaker once studied the Light. His eyes were ever fixed on the new brilliance of the Living Traveler.

"He called me Anwar. You never found yours either, did you?"

"No." Her journey had spanned centuries—on Earth, the Moon, and Venus—but she never unearthed a single soul she felt worthy of the Light. "I used to think it was me; perhaps I was too picky, but… he assured me, humanity was vast. The gift of the Light must be deserved, and it was better to be thorough than to end up with someone too weak to bear the burden, or worse, misuse it. He, at least, made me feel… useful. I put my search on hold and served him as a cartographer. You?"

"Deconstructionist." Anwar paused. Drifted a few feet toward the luminous Living Traveler. "Dejana, can you feel it?"

Dejana followed Anwar's gaze up to the Traveler. "Feel what?"

"The pressure."

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Hunter

The Speaker's warnings were clear: Always mind the Light. If you feel it fraying, you've strayed too far. There are places even the Traveler's Light cannot reach.

Now, here I am, lost in the shadowy pastiche known as the Reef. And not a single tether of Light touches me. But that… that is what my Guardian wanted.

His name is Cyrell; and Cyrell called me Strain. I found him on the far edges of Mercury, in a valley that the Vex transformation had never reached. He seemed resilient, unwavering, old, and wise. I'd searched so long for my better half that I didn't hesitate. If I had considered but one moment more, I might have sensed how tired and burdened and tangled his soul truly was, and I would have left him in peace. And I would not be a murderer of my kin.

Cyrell told me we came to the Reef in search of Awoken. He had heard stories of how this far-flung offshoot of Humanity had returned to Sol with unparalleled knowledge. He believed they had the answer to a question he refused to share. I know now, however, that he really came here to spare me.

He confessed he could not bear another battle nor fight in the name of something no one could possibly understand. Though he could not remember his past, he knew deep down that he had already fought his last war.

He couldn't kill me. I was his friend. He doesn't kill friends. He wouldn't kill himself, either; that was cowardly, weak. And if the Ghosts' sole purpose was to raise the dead to kill in the name of unexplainable forces, he could no longer let that happen. He would end the cycle. He would spare his brothers- and sisters-in-arms. He would let the dead rest.

Years later, I saw Cyrell again, clad in wretched-looking armor, dragging a chain of dead Ghosts in the name of peace. Still searching for an Awoken who could answer the one question that has haunted him since his rebirth.

If you are a Ghost who has not yet found your Chosen, let this be a warning: Cyrell, the Ghost Hunter, will end your search for you. If you are Awoken and perchance have the answer he seeks, please, do not keep your secrets from him.

Your life depends on it.

<|endoftext|>

The Chosen's Choice

She focuses herself to resurrect him once more, only this time—she hesitates. She looks around, taking in the human carnage surrounding her.

She thinks back to their arrival into this village. How its population lauded him and showered him with gifts, begged him to stay, to defend them, to keep them safe.

At first he seemed reluctant, but the longer he remained, and the more Fallen he slew, the more they praised him. That praise emboldened him; he grew expectant, addicted to their exaltations and gifts.

The more he consumed, the more the village's resources dwindled. He led expeditions to take from others—no warning, no diplomacy. He showed his might as one of the Risen and demanded he be lauded as savior. Those he once protected now died under his charge, and they venerated him all the more for it.

As much as she tried to guide him back into the Light and remind him why he was Chosen, he could not hear her over the adulations of his newfound vassals. Resurrection after resurrection, his legend flourished while the dead remained dead; he grew ever more covetous and unforgiving. He stopped learning from his losses and came to feel entitled to his immortality.

One winter night, clad in golden armor, he made war on a seaside settlement of fishers and spiritualists. Not a man, woman, or child survived. Flushed with the high of easy victory, he and his followers were ill prepared for the Fallen war party that had been stalking them the last few moons. It was a massacre atop a massacre. And only he, one of the Risen, would walk away from this.

She looks away from the human carnage surrounding her. Looks down upon the one she chose. His golden armor, dulled with the blood of his victims and his adorers, still reflects back to her the light of her single eye.

He made his choice. And thus, so will she.

She turns her eye away from him, away from herself, and floats eastward toward the rising light.

<|endoftext|>

The We Before Us

I remember the moment we were born.

There was pain, and loss, and a feeling of falling. Was this the end? The shadows gathered, colored bruise-purple and gray in Our fading consciousness.

Our shell cracked and splintered. Parts of Us were lost, or carried away. We felt those wounds, jagged and sharp. We could feel them still, attached by a gossamer-thin strand of understanding.

We felt a garden with no blooms. A valley shrouded in gloom.

We felt ourselves dying. We didn't want to go.

Then there I was, separated from the whole. I could feel it shrink, slip back into itself, dim and unseeing. I knew it was waiting. Resting. Watching. Considering.

And I knew what I needed to do. Somewhere in this wide, amazing galaxy there was a person. They were quiet and dead, like We had been, but I could bring them back. I could share what was inside of me, this glorious warmth and life and breath and being.

Together, that person and I would do what We, the We before me, could not.

I wrapped the spark that was me in metal and glass, a tiny bit of something that reminded me of the home We had shared. Then I set out to find my person. The keeper of my Light.

There were so many people. So many still, fragile things, decaying into dust, lost to memory. I touched each one, looking for… something? A fragment of ember under the ash?

I didn't find it. I know now that there is one person, only one, that is mine. I have been to many planets. Seen things I never knew were possible. Hid from monsters. Followed dreams.

I have seen others of my kind, the other pieces that were once Us. Their search is over.

They are complete. Stronger. Braver because they found their counterpart.

I am alone. I know you are still out there. That you're waiting for me. But it has been so long, and I am so…

Very…

Cold…

I will rest here and think about Us.

For…

A…

Moment…

Cold…

Where…

We…

You!

<|endoftext|>

Don't Call Me Ghost

"I want a name."

"Is this because of Sagira? She is a terrible influence on you."

"She has a name. People don't just call her 'Ghost.' It's insulting being called 'Ghost.' I'm not a thing. I'm me."

"Who are you, then?"

"I'm… I don't know. I'm me."

"And you want me to define you? That sounds like you're a thing."

"You're insufferable, do you know that?"

"You didn't have to bring me back."

"You know that's not true."

"Is it?"

"There you go again, Tyra, questioning everything. Treating the entire world like a puzzle that you have to record, and analyze, and put in your files."

"I cannot do anything else. If I do not question, do not study, do not learn, I have no purpose. 'Every mind has its own form.'"

"You've been reading philosophy again."

"Rousseau. Ikora lent me a copy."

"Hmmph."

"Don't pout, Ghost. It's annoying."

"So is being called Ghost. Might as well cover me with a sheet."

"Choose your own name. You don't need me to define you."

"I will!"

… … …

"Well? What is your name, Ghost?"

"Don't call me Ghost."

<|endoftext|>

Compliments

I remember talking to Ophiuchus one day about the connection between Ghosts and Guardians.

This was years and years ago, back when we were still in the City and Osiris was Vanguard Commander. Osiris and Ikora would talk for hours—days, sometimes—and frankly, it was pretty boring. Especially when I got stuck entertaining Ophiuchus. Seriously, that Ghost is not a conversationalist.

Anyway, O said he had a theory why there was one Ghost for one Guardian. He thought that each of us had strengths that complemented weaknesses in our Guardian, and vice versa. That we needed to be together, or neither of us would be whole.

"Like soul mates?" I asked. "Because I'm not in love with Osiris or anything. Not only would that be really weird, he kinda gets on my nerves a lot of the time."

"It is not a romantic attachment," O said. If he had eyes, he would have rolled them at me. "It is my belief that the Traveler understood that normal people would not be enough to protect humanity. That it would take those who are extraordinary in both body and spirit. And that only by the merging of Ghost and Guardian into a single unit could this be accomplished."

"I don't know where Ikora keeps you," I told him, "but Osiris and I are not 'a single unit.' You've heard us argue. A lot."

"And why do you challenge him?" O asked.

"Because no one else will. He's the great and powerful Osiris: hero, scholar, savior, yadda yadda. And no one, I mean no one, not even Ikora, really challenges him. They do what he wants, even if it's a terrible idea. Not me.

"Everyone needs someone to tell them to get over themselves once in a while. Especially Osiris."

"Would you say that is a strength that complements a weakness?"

I didn't answer. I hate it when someone else is right. Good thing it doesn't happen often.

"All right then, smarty Ghost," I finally said. "What about you and Ikora? You're both rigid and stuffy, read too much…"

"I am a calming influence. I encourage her to think before she acts and not to let her emotions get the best of her."

I couldn't help it. I cracked up. It actually took me a minute to get under control. "Ikora?" I said, laughing so hard I could barely talk. "Have you met Ikora? All she does is think!"

"You don't know her at all," Ophiuchus told me.

<|endoftext|>

No Rez for the Weary

My Guardian is immortal. My Guardian is forever lost to me. He boarded the derelict Almighty with his fireteam, hoping to salvage Cabal secrets from the star murderer.

I should have seen the trap. Was it Cabal? Was it some Vex infection from Mercury? I don't know. It's all my fault. I remember how the moment of activation felt like falling. He lunged for the center, crying out to his friends, "I'll disarm it!"

He is still lunging. Fly to the Almighty and you will find him there, caught in the amber of slow time, reaching forever. I have observed his motions carefully. He will arrive at the mechanism and deactivate the trap in only a little more than fifty thousand years.

I cannot resurrect him. I have tried so hard. The City's Warlocks and thanatonauts answered all my desperate questions, even when I began to ask if he could be destroyed. At least if he were gone, unmade, then I could make him again…

Why can't I bring him back? If a Guardian falls into Titan's methane sea, they do not die instantly, but we can still bring them back on the arcology. If a Guardian hurls themself off their ship into space, do we need to wait for them to disintegrate in the solar wind before we bring them back? No. No. It was never hard before! I see him right there, and he seems so close! All I was ever meant to be was his Ghost!

But all Ghosts know there are places where we cannot bring our Guardians back to life. And this is one of them. Why? Is the Darkness gathered against us here? Is the Light too weak?

I think I know why. Some share my theory. What do we do when we bring our Guardians back? What is the magical heart of the process? Are we like the City's probability kilns, twisting the quantum vacuum in our favor to yield matter?

Perhaps. Perhaps. But certain members of a cult I shall not directly name have their own specific interpretation of this process. "When you bring him back," they told me, "you must have a template… an image to provide you with the information you need. Where do you find that template?

"Simply in a neighboring timeline. A place where he is still alive and intact. And wherever there is great danger, wherever the probability of death is too high, then those timelines become scarce and hard to reach. And so you find the zones where Guardians cannot easily be remade."

If this is true, then I am doomed and free. There will be no alternate worlds in which my Guardian escapes that trap. There will be no hope of resurrection.

I will be a Ghost alone.

But the thought haunts me that I might be wrong, and that he is still waiting for me…

<|endoftext|>

Confession of Hope | Part One

The choice haunts me.

It was not reasoned. I let emotion get the better of me. The Fallen had moved on. The few survivors were huddled close in the dark of a cave, muffling their heavy, quick breaths, stifling their sobbing.

When I found them, many nights before, I also found renewed purpose. I had traveled these dead and dying worlds for longer than I cared to remember, all the while in search of a spark worthy of ignition.

Over time I'd grown weary, but in this small band of survivors, I found hope. If I couldn't find a lost soul worthy to be touched by the Light, then I would find another way, a smaller way, to be of service. I would lead this small gathering of desperate men, women, and a single child to the growing sanctuary beneath the Traveler.

If I could not find a hero to challenge the Darkness, I would be a guide to those in need of salvation.

It took some time to gain their trust. I was odd—other. They thought I was an angel. I told them I was not. They named me Tiānshǐ. I did not object.

The child marveled at me. Still too young to speak, much less comprehend, he had a presence that was a burden and a boon. His parents did all they could to nurture him, protect him with the aid, comfort, and care of their traveling companions—once strangers, now bound deeper than blood by their shared experience in this new life after the end of the world.

On that day, in that cave, huddled in fear as the Fallen Skiff's roar faded over the tree line, the mother wailed—a sound I had never before heard and hope never to hear again.

Such pain. Such sorrow.

Grief. Suffering. Loss.

Her cry echoed through the forest. Her husband, weeping and on the edge of breaking down, simply held her.

And the dead child in her arms.

The others tried to calm them, out of fear that the Fallen would return. The attack had been swift and brutal. Twenty dead. Only nine survivors, here, in this cave. I watched the tree line, anxious and afraid.

The mother's pain filled the space between the thick trees. I turned back to her and saw it for the first time: the child's spark.

Faint. But there.

This little boy was not my charge. Those selected to return were champions. This child was so small, so frail. What devotion had he shown? What bravery? What had he sacrificed? But a thought lingered…

Was it not my purest purpose to deliver hope? Every hero raised fought not for themselves but for the whole of humanity. If saving one life—if redressing this one terrible loss—was not a worthy cause… what was?

I watched the mother as she cried.

I felt myself expand. Felt the Light that was me intensify. In a way, it was outside of my control, as if something had reached inside of me and flipped a switch. A beam erupted from my core and bathed with Light the child's small, broken body.

A second passed—

And he began to cry. All fell silent. The Traveler's gift had been given. A child, returned. And with him, the beginning of my journey's end.

Did I do the right thing? Would the child grow to reach his peak physical self? Would he, like all returned, be ready for the wars to come?

But then a thought came over me, one I had never before considered: maybe death would have been better.

Had I saved the child, or doomed him?

As his cries echoed, the survivors looked on in shock. There was joy in their silence—wonder.

I looked down on him, and pride began to well inside of me. I had done what was right.

But that was then—only months ago, but long enough to seem a lifetime.

Now the Fallen are back, and we are running. And I fear the promise of a gift given is far from enough to save us from a pirate's blade.

—Fragment of the last transmission from an unknown Ghost

<|endoftext|>

The Watchful Eye

I've made my peace. If my other is not out here somewhere—if my Guardian can't be found—then I will find ways to be of value to the greater good.

It's been cycles since I told myself to be useful in any way possible, but it is a mantra I repeat, a constant reminder: "If I have no other, MY actions must be enough. If I have no other, I will become the hero I cannot find."

It sounded noble at the time. Turns out nobility is the kind of thing that places the well-intended in harm's way and, apparently, I'm fine with that. Maybe we all are. Maybe that's what makes us heroic—accepting risk as a consequence of doing what's right.

I've been tracking Fallen crew movements along the edge of the EDZ for some time, careful not to venture too deep into their territory. After all, I'm only one Ghost. Without a Guardian, I'm no use in a fight. But I can watch and learn and report. I can find my own ways to combat the enemies of the Light.

All Ghosts keep an eye out—we chronicle and share the highlights of our travels. It helps us and our charges navigate the frontier, though the vast majority of these wild lands remain unexplored.

The only difference between the Ghost I am today and the Ghost I used to be is my focus. Whereas I used to be driven solely by the need to find and sync with a Guardian, I am now fully dedicated to spy craft—the art and execution of information gathering.

And I am not alone.

There is an entire network of Ghosts like me. Should we find our others, we shall rejoice and shift our mission to serve as the right hands of the true warriors of the Light. Until then, we move swift and quiet through the vast wilds of the frontier, scouting our enemies' movements and cataloging their every action so that the Vanguard, and others, may better assess and confront the dangers beyond the Last Safe City.

We are small. We are few. But we are brave and we are heroes.

—Link, an unconnected Ghost, part of the Vanguard's covert spectral network

<|endoftext|>

Into the Fray

She wasn't ready, but I had no choice.

The Cabal mining rig was set to scorch the earth and then churn the soil to get at whatever they were after underneath.

Problem was… my Guardian—the one I'd spent a very long time looking for—was lying dormant in their path: a lifeless husk in need of a wake-up call before her remains were atomized and I was left, for eternity, without my chosen.

That I'd found her seconds before the Red Legion's survey team arrived was… unfortunate. But I had to do what I had to do. Some risks, after all, are worth taking. It was now or never. And besides, there's no timing like bad timing.

I opened myself up to the Traveler's gift and enveloped her in Light just as the mining rig settled.

My new Guardian gasped and sat up, crying out as if waking from a nightmare.

Not good.

The Cabal security team was on us quick. Their slug shots rang out.

Before she could take a second breath, my Guardian was dead… again.

I spun and hit her with another scan as the rig warmed its burners.

The Cabal released their War Beasts on us.

My Guardian was up as the ground heated and the War Beasts charged. She was confused, as was to be expected.

"Run! Now!" I tried to warn her, incite her to move. But she just looked around—dazed, confused.

Then she saw the Beasts. Instinct, as it turns out, is a compelling motivator. She was up in a flash, sprinting away from the rig's burners and away from the gnashing teeth that were quick on her heels. As soon as she cleared the rig, the Cabal opened fire. And here's where risk became reward…

My Guardian didn't flinch. Didn't cower. Instead, she got angry. And aggressive.

This long-dead woman was back among the living for only a moment, and already she was one with war. I wonder, perhaps, if that's what makes humanity the perfect weapon—if that's what makes it a force worthy of concern. Not my place to say. Though what came next gave me pause and more than a hint of pride.

My Guardian charged the nearest Cabal—a creature of war she had never seen, a hulking brute in thick-plated armor.

She docked and dodged, left to right and back again to avoid slug fire. A War Beast lunged, clamping its jaw on my Guardian's forearm. She yelled.

The Cabal laughed. The other War Beasts closed in.

Then…

My Guardian—this woman only just reborn in the Light—grabbed the Beast clamping down on her arm by the hind legs, Lifted, and brought her entire weight down on the creature's spine, knee first.

The sound—cracked bone and a sudden, sharp yelp—caused the other Beasts to halt and the Cabal to quell their laughter.

She resumed her charge. No hesitation. The Beast's limp body was still locked on her arm. She pulled it free—I could hear the flesh tear, but she did not flinch. Instead she closed the distance, rushing the Cabal, the Beast held tight in her good arm's grip.

The Cabal raised his weapon, but too late. The other Beasts charged as my Guardian pummeled the Legionary with the corpse of his pet. It was brutal, swift.

I issued a warning as the War Beasts lunged, but it didn't matter—she already had the Cabal's slug thrower in hand. What followed… I am reluctant to recount in full.

She was new then—awakened into a world of sudden, fierce violence.

All I will say is that I am here, and my Guardian is near, and somewhere deep within the EDZ there is ground still darkened with the stain of Cabal blood.

—Tam, a Ghost recounting his Guardian's resurrection

<|endoftext|>

Struck by Wonder

I look upon them, and I am struck by wonder.

All they do. All they endure.

Not a single one asked for this life—this second chance. And when they woke—when the Light hit their eyes in that first instance upon their return—they were welcomed into a broken world.

Yet…

They stand. Time and again. Against odds insurmountable. In defiance of all who would see their end.

Such determination. Such pride. Such fire. Love. Joy. Hope. Fear. Lust. Such powerful will. Strong enough to carve the promise of new tomorrows across the barren landscapes of yesterday.

It inspires. From the smallest victory, to grandest of conquests, I've seen it all…

The raising of the first walls. The bravery of Six Fronts. The desperation at Twilight Gap. The war with the Devils. The taming of the Wolves.

I've seen Iron Lords rise and fall, witnessed the last cycles of dark ages, and cheered as new triumphs gifted all with the promise of renewed hope—our return to the Moon and Mars, the pruning of the Garden, and the defeat of Hive royalty.

Even Ghaul and his armies… So many threats, so many challenges, yet our Guardians stand—humankind persists.

They are touched by the Light, but no longer do I see it as a gift. Instead, it is their courage, their strength, their humanity that has been, in truth, the greatest gift—their greatest weapon.

This thought brings me joy and a bit of peace amid so much chaos, and I find myself asking, often and with great anticipation:

Where to next?

—Observations of a Ghost named Kaiser on Guardian inspiration

<|endoftext|>

Confession of Hope | Part Two

Out here in the wilds, survival depends heavily on your ability to elude Fallen patrols. Everything else, every other danger, is secondary. Exposure. Starvation. Hungry beasts. Crazed bandits. All can be assessed and managed. But Fallen—these vicious pirates—they hunt and kill not only for their own survival… but for sport. They relish the slaughter.

I was guiding our ragtag group through dense woods, but with a child to carry and many survivors wounded, we didn't move quickly enough. We'd been spotted a few miles back. The attack was swift, violent. The child's mother fell almost immediately. His father foolishly—though maybe it's best to imagine he was brave—let his grief and fear get the better of him. He ran to her aid, but there was none to give. Now he is gone as well. Two parents dead. One orphaned child gifted in ways he can't yet understand.

Others grabbed the infant and fled. He cried—confused, frightened. They muzzled his fear and made for the thick of the forest. I followed. The child was mine to protect—if I could. I had no choice but to stay with him.

And yet, here I am…

This hasty dictation is meant to give some insight, if needed, into my choice—into my moment of weakness that led to a child reborn. I'm recounting as I flee, so mind the clipped nature, this truncated plea for understanding and a brief history of what happened here.

I will send this message on signal to any Ghost who may hear. The Fallen are on me. I have run from the pack to lead them away. Should I survive, I will return to the child. Should I fall, he will be left to others to raise—and will ever have only the one, second, life to give.

I left him in the care of a terrified man and woman. But they are smart and caring; they have courage but know when to run, when to survive. They will stay hidden until the Fallen are away, my Light serving as a distraction to lure them as far from these Humans as I can.

I made my presence known to the pirates and darted from the last of the survivors—made myself a target to buy them time. But that time is short.

The Fallen are close now. And closing. I can hear the bark of their war cries. I can feel the spark of their blades. They've long since learned that to kill one like me is a future problem solved.

I am not sorry for the choice I made. The child gave hope, though fleeting. What comes next for him is unknown. But there is promise in him, should he find sanctuary. Should he find guidance.

This is not a confession. This is my hope. This is my—

—Fragment of the last transmission from an unknown Ghost

<|endoftext|>

A Hero's Requiem

You're all special. He was no different. At first. Just as special, same as the rest.

All that's changed, obviously. Over time he… distanced himself—stood out.

It took some time for her to adjust to his personality. From what she's shared, it took him time as well. The Cayde-6 known to all is not the man he was in total. His wit and his playfulness were a shield—a weapon as trained as his blade or his hand cannons.

He called her Sundance. I was never sure why. She said it was from an old legend—a fable from the time before the time before. I always thought it was because of her spark, the grace with which she moved—so effortless, so sly. They were a perfect match.

There's no doubt he recounted his return to those closest to him on more than one occasion; and there's no doubt as well that the events shifted a bit with each telling. Like his wit, the building of his legend was a weapon.

For those who don't know… For those who were not lucky enough to hear the tale of Cayde-6's first from his own mouth—with that charm and the way he'd act out his favorite parts, complete with sound effects—here is one telling…

It's a recording from cycles past. It's not the whole story, but where Cayde-6 was involved, nothing ever was…

"BOOM! I wake up. Groggy. Confused. Hungover. It's the same for us all, so that initial shock's nothing new. Sundance is in my face, and I'm freaking out. My brain works, but I don't remember a thing 'cept that I seem to be a functioning life form—I'm human, I'm a man. And then my mind starts reeling a thousand miles a minute. BOOM-BOOM-BOOM. Like I'm downloading the 'Idiot's Guide to Basic Human Existence.' Cool. Great. Still can't remember anything. And I sure can't wrap my head around the talking, floating magic robot orb-thing jabbering in my face. I'm freaked. So, I freaked. Smacked her to the ground. Hard… And I ran.

"I'm runnin'. She's runnin'… Or, ya know, whatever she's doin' since she doesn't have any legs… She's right behind me, going, 'Wrong way! Wrong way!' She's screaming. I'm screaming. Whatever she's yelling, I just keep running. It's night. Did I mention that? It's nighttime and my eyes are still adjusting. So, I'm runnin', I'm runnin'. Can't see. Can't remember. Scared to death. Confused as all get-out. And then—

"I fall. I'm straight up falling. Just like that, I ran… Right. Off. A. Cliff. It wasn't a short drop. I bounced… so many times. Felt each and every one. Till I didn't. Till it all went black again. And then…

"BOOM! I'm back! She got me right up on my feet. Just like she always does. And that, my dudes, was the start of a beautiful friendship."

Most haven't heard that story, and in listening, you hopefully weren't looking for any definitive truth of who he was as a man or a Guardian. That's not what the story's for. Its purpose, now more than ever, fits nicely into the armor Cayde wore best…

He thought it was funny. And now, more than ever…

Cayde would want us to laugh.

—Shiro-4's Ghost, at a gathering in Cayde-6's honor

<|endoftext|>

From Fallen Ground

I am quiet, I am not here, the Fallen cannot see me, they cannot know me. I am not a shadow, but I move among them, silent, deliberate of motion, and intent as when I entered their hollow one month prior. I used the light of day to mask my own, because the forest here is barren, it's, it's, it's a dead place, to and fro, a constant buzz as the scavengers go about the business of stripping this world of its old glories. And I watch, I learn, I record and preserve; their every movement is my obsession. I hang on their every word, even though I am not versed in their nightmare tongue, but others are and they will decipher it; they will find the secrets hidden within. Secrets are like weapons, and I am an instrument of their unmaking. They are enemy, they are cruel, and I will learn and share, and they will be undone.

What is that shouting? I am deep now, no telling how far in. I have tracked each meter. Mapped every path. But this maze is ever-winding and their cheers now echo, violent with joy, and I hesitate to investigate as I am entering unknown corridors thick with security… Yes, yes, this is a special place, a holy place, a mechanized place, and the shouts merge with screams and the grinding of gears, and the joy joins with pain. There is suffering here, punishment—a, a… a ritual? I must know so we may know, and I move slow, careful… must… not… be seen… cannot be detected… Meter by meter, anywhere where cover is provided. Quick and with purpose whenever exposed. I make my way, leaving other avenues unexplored; the cheers must be understood. But eventually they die. Replaced by the harmony of the pirates' busy days and nights, oh my how they never rest—or rather… when they rest, others continue the work, prepping scavenger sorties, sifting through spoils, readying their fleet, their weapons, their worship. The manner in which they revere machines, I should feel safe here, I should be among their gods… Am I machine? I don't know, I don't know anything. Their worship is not so simple. With the cacophony of excitement no longer echoing, I slow my pace but remain vigilant in my efforts to locate its origin.

It is weeks before I do, weeks before now. A ceremony has just ended and I am sending out a recollection of what I have seen, because I am seen—these are my final moments, of this I am sure. The ceremony is combat, ritual, and fury, it is a pit and arena where the lesser and unworthy must prove their value or suffer and die. Oh how they fight dirty, oh how they fight to survive—or to thrive. In this pit, before the eyes of an Archon, shamed Eliksni may redeem themselves, lesser pirates may improve their station: a Dreg to a Vandal, a Vandal to a Captain, a Captain to… This is their forge, their place of judgment, their trial before their betters. This is what we are up against; kill or die, thrive or perish, they have no use for the weak and they watch and cheer and scream as their Archon looks on. But I have become careless. The fervor became a distraction and now the Archon's eyes have found me and I am too deep to run and I think he is smiling…

—The last frantic transmissions of Wren, a brave Ghost of the spectral network

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Community Theater Presents

The Ghost Community Theater presents:

ORYX THE NIGHTMARE DADDY:
One Brave Ghost Versus the Death from Outer Space

A four-and-a-half-act play
Written and directed by Didi, Ghost of Marcus Ren

STARRING:
Marcus Ren............................................Hero's Ghost
Didi the Ghost.....................................Guardian Hero
Enoch Bast...........................................................Oryx
Pixie, Ghost of Ariadne Gris............................Ir Halak
Sweeperbot.....................................................Ir Anûk
Ghost, Ghost of Enoch Bast....Ghostly Shade of Crota

See the play that Commander Zavala calls, "An insensitive and disrespectful travesty of a production, with truly abominable prop design—an insult to the art of papier-mâché."

The eponymous Ghost himself calls it: "Is this supposed to be me? Oh… oh no…"

Ghost, the Ghost of Tyra Karn, calls it: "A four-and-a-half-act structure? But that makes no… Stories do have rules, you know! You can't… What constitutes 'half' an… You know what? I don't need to entertain this nonsense."

Ophiuchus, the Ghost of Ikora Rey, calls it: [judgmental silence].

Lord Shaxx calls it: "Undeniably enthusiastic, I'll grant you that. But is the dialogue meant to come across so… sexually charged?"

Ghost, the Ghost of Tyra Karn, calls it: "I've been thinking about it, and I really do think it would be worthwhile for you to learn the basics of narrative composition. Sit down, we're doing this now."

<|endoftext|>

Difference of Opinion

Peregrine Institute of Higher Learning Presents:

"Ghost Stories: Interviews with Two Ghosts of the Traveler"

A guest lecture by two Guardian-less Ghosts about life, Light, and the search for their Guardians
Featuring: Balthazar (unpartnered) and Peach (unpartnered)

Transcript of the Q&A session is as follows:

Q: What is the Traveler, in your understanding?

BALTHAZAR: Great question.

PEACH: Terrible question.

BALTHAZAR: In a sense, it's the ONLY question. The Traveler is our primary, our mother, the primordial and the pinnacle. A dear friend, the Ghost of Pujari, once compared the Traveler to a song that has never been sung—

PEACH: Look, the answer no one likes to give is that no one knows what the Traveler is or anything about it. Not even us.

BALTHAZAR: We know she wished for us to raise Guardians to be her avatars and defenders—

PEACH: Do we, though? Just because we CAN do that doesn't mean we were MADE to do that. And who says it's a "she" anyway? Why does "it" need a gender?

BALTHAZAR: The Traveler, in her omniscient wisdom, looked into the past and the future, and from all the generations that emerged from the cradle of Earth, she chose the best of them to be her champions. Each Ghost was lovingly and carefully created for their one true Guardian. The Ghost and Guardian complete each other.

PEACH: If that's true, then the Traveler's kind of a jerk.

BALTHAZAR: Excuse me?

PEACH: Look, I know tons of Ghosts who died before they ever found their Guardians. I know some Ghosts who still haven't found a Guardian. You haven't. And I haven't, but I don't think I'm "incomplete" because of it.

BALTHAZAR: I have the humility to recognize my own shortcomings and to submit myself to the Traveler's plan.


Q: Do you remember being inside the Traveler?

PEACH: No.

BALTHAZAR: I do. We call it the Womb.

PEACH: I have never and will never call it that.

BALTHAZAR: Imagine a cosmos inside a bottle. Trillions of stars orbiting each other in a complex weave. But they aren't stars. Perhaps a better word would be… souls. Souls, dancing in an infinite space enclosed within a celestial egg.

PEACH: Which is it, an egg or a womb?

BALTHAZAR: It's called a metaphor.

PEACH: Well then, pick a metaphor. Not twelve.

BALTHAZAR: Well, what would you call it?

PEACH: I wouldn't call it anything, because I don't remember it, and I don't think you do either.


Q: Some people say that each Ghost is an aspect of the Traveler—that is to say, that each Ghost represents a part of the divine Whole.

PEACH: [loud laughter]

BALTHAZAR: Would you please? This is unbecoming.

PEACH: First of all, that wasn't a question. Second of all… [more laughter] Third of all: if I'm a part of the Traveler's brain or soul or whatever, then the Traveler sure isn't divine, I'll tell you that much.


Q: What will you do if you never find a Guardian?

BALTHAZAR: I shall find a Guardian. The Traveler has willed it so.

PEACH: Did you get that in writing?

BALTHAZAR: It is true that some Ghosts die before finding their partners. If that happens to me, then I suppose I will "do" nothing, since I will no longer be. But I have faith.

PEACH: If I never find my Guardian, I'll go steal someone else's. I hear Sagira had a good time with that.


Q: If you could eat, what would you eat first?

PEACH: Finally, a good question!

BALTHAZAR: We do not know the desire for food. Our semicorporeal form—

PEACH: Nectarines. Or hot sauce. Ooh, or crickets. Crunchy roasted crickets. Crunchy food sounds so fun. I wish I could get cricket carapace stuck between my teeth. Here's a question for YOU: what's it like to have teeth?

BALTHAZAR: Is this over yet?

<|endoftext|>

Protector of Ghosts

From: Micah-10

To: Tallulah Fairwind

Category: 5-sat bounce

Priority: 3

Hello, old friend:

I have a knack for finding Hunters. Another of my little pack has found her partner, a Human male, and now the two of them are coming to you by watercraft over the Pacific. Keep an eye on this one, Tallu. He has taken the name Andal Brask, and I believe he will be trouble.

Perhaps all this travel has made me sentimental, for when one of my Ghost wards finds their Guardian, I am sad, because my pack grows smaller. I miss them when they are gone. Now I am down to one Ghost other than my own. Pup, we call him. The runt of my metallic litter. Pup has yet to speak, but always his little blue eye searches for his Guardian.

I plan to resupply at the Cosmodrome and then take Pup north. Those steppes are uncharted territory, except by that lone wolf, Conar. My correspondence with him is regular in the outbound direction; I consider myself lucky when he answers every fifth message. Still, you and I both know his intel is good. No one else knows Old Russia like he does.

Perhaps in the Cosmodrome I will find a ship capable of breaking atmosphere. Though there is much of this Earth I have yet to see, I have come across more than a few Ghosts who believe their Guardians are offworld, waiting in the Golden Age ruins of Freehold and Ishtar and beyond. Some of these little Lights have decided to brave the null on their own to reach their fated partners. I tell them there's still so much of Earth we've yet to sniff out, that perhaps their Guardians have not yet been born, but some of them are convinced. If my next Ghost pack wants to make the journey, I am determined to join them.

These last few months we've enjoyed the pleasant absence of Cyrell. Now I feel more confident that we lost him in Australis. If he tries to hurt my Ghosts, I will rip his throat out.

I hope you're not feeling too cooped up. You're still doing good work, Tallu. And as they say, better you than me.

Your Faithful Den-Mother-of-Ghosts,
Micah-10

<|endoftext|>

Savin

I am searching. I am close; I can feel that I am close.

What will my Risen be like? Will she be honorable? Will she be a brute?

I should be able to tell, shouldn't I? I don't know. I don't know that it matters. I have been searching since the day that I was born. I will take anyone.

I crest a dune. The Gobi is endless in the evening light. And then I see it: a burnt-out building, the only man-made structure for miles. I do not know whether to fly faster or keep a stately pace. It doesn't matter. The dead cannot see.

I am nervous. Why am I nervous?

As I draw closer, I rehearse what I might say. First introductions are important. "You are a child of the Traveler's Light," I say to myself. "You have been chosen in defense of this solar system… No. No. Hm. You… We are both children of the Traveler. You and I are both children of…"

I forget my words as I slip into the building. I find meteorological equipment. I find an empty office. I find a dingy breakroom. At the back of the breakroom, I see my other half: a Fallen Vandal crushed beneath a toppled refrigerator.

I am devastated. I have seen the Fallen. They are butchers. Castaway murderers. I would take anyone, but not this. Not this thing.

I turn away. I count seventeen slow laps around the room and then another four around the building. I should be decisive, shouldn't I? I should be filled with pride that I have fulfilled my first purpose. I am not. It doesn't matter. I cannot ignore the pull.

I return to the breakroom. I do not know what I will say, but—Fallen or no—it is the Traveler's will that I do this. I reach toward the Light, then reach toward that pull to join them together.

The refrigerator trembles as the Light suffuses him. I hear a low groan. "Push it away," I whisper. If my Risen dies beneath this refrigerator and I fly away into the sun, no one will know. Perhaps I will have done the Earth a great service. "I'm here with you, but you must help yourself. Push it away and sit up."

The refrigerator shifts, then topples to the side. An Awoken man sits up and pushes the dead Vandal off his chest like an unwelcome blanket on a hot summer night. With effort, he wiggles free and stands straight.



"Who are you?" he asks. He looks around, then down at his blue hands. "What am I?"

"I am your Ghost," I say with more than a hint of obvious relief. "You are one of the Traveler's Chosen, a defender of humanity. What is your name?"

He flexes his fingers, works his jaw, blows a raspberry. Then he looks at me. "Savin. Yes, I think I call myself Savin." He nods, satisfied. "Let's go, Yourghost."

<|endoftext|>

Pulled Pork

Nkechi-32 lies on the hull of her ship, skimming through gossip and salvage requisition lists on VanNet. Agu nestles in the magnificent feather ruff of her chest plate and looks out at the debris of the Reef.

"'Revised Crucible rules are garbage,' blah blah blah. How does this have like three hundred comments?" she says, flicking to the next page. "Where's the juicy stuff?"

"Hey, it's Pulled Pork," Agu says, peeking up over one of Nkechi's tremendous pauldrons.

She sits up right away, eyes lighting with interest. "Really? Where?"

Pulled Pork is the name they've given to a very sweet, very earnest Ghost that has been looking for his Guardian for about as long as they can remember. Pulled Pork is not his real name, but it feels right, like calling Mara Sov by her full name instead of just her forename.

Agu directs Nkechi's attention out into the floating scrap. Sure enough, there he is: a tiny speck moving with meticulous patience across the surface of a blasted-out Fallen Skiff. "Let's go say hi," Nkechi decides, disabling her VanNet HUD. She climbs to her feet and begins a lazy zero-gravity parkour run, leaping and drifting from one hunk of scrap to another.

"Hey, buddy!" she calls when they get close. "Whatcha doing?"

Pulled Pork finishes up a scan of a floating piece of concrete and rebar, then turns toward them.

"I am looking for my Guardian!" he chirps.

"That's nice. You gonna find him in that rock?"

"You never know, Miss Nkechi Thirty-Two. Maybe my Guardian is very small."

"Maybe," Nkechi agrees. "But you might want to consider scanning the dead, bud. That shell's pretty snappy. Is it new?" It's Reef-purple, with a flowerlike silhouette and silver detailing.

"Yes! It is. It was a gift. And, thank you for your suggestion. I have considered it! I do often scan the dead. I also scan other things. I like to be thorough." Pulled Pork bobs in place politely, almost bowing. "Please excuse me one moment!" He turns to scan a piece of warped plasteel.

They watch. Nkechi shakes her head.

"Oh, leave him alone," Agu whispers in her ear. "If he goes through every bit of scrap in the Reef, he'll find someone eventually. Sky knows there are plenty of bodies (and body parts) floating around here…"

"Yeah, we said that when we found him on Mars, and that was before Twilight Gap," Nkechi replies.

"Well. With that in mind, let's check back on him in a couple months. Who knows? Maybe he'll get lucky and find the greatest Guardian of all time."

"Shoot. YOU found the greatest Guardian of all time."

<|endoftext|>

Who Guards the Guardians?

All around me, the pitter-patter of desperate steps.

The thump-thump of armor-piercing microrockets. The cries and screams that fill the air.

I feel… nothing. I am filled with… nothing. Just frozen. Empty. Soulless. Lightless.

The Red Legion has come and taken it all away.

Eventually the desperate steps diminish. For a few minutes, the Last City falls silent. Then… The low growl of their breathing. The clanking metal of heavy slug throwers against their crimson armor. The tremors of their heavy booted steps as they draw near.

Thud. Thud. Thud.

Mortals ask themselves the same question all the time—that question about meaning. About their place in this universe.

But WE don't. Perhaps at first, as we tried to make sense of the day the Traveler pushed us free from itself, but no, not anymore. We know our purpose. Why we're here.

In ancient times, humanity dreamed of gods and heavens and winged protectors that watched over them, kept them safe from uncontrollable and unpredictable harm. In this age, I believe humanity sees that in the Guardians. Yet, when the Guardians meet with trouble… who guards the Guardians?

Thud. Thud. Thud.

They're close now. If they think I'm not going to stay by my Guardian's side to my own bitter end, even though she's already met hers, they're deathly mistaken.

I AM meant to do this. My Light WILL return. She NEEDS me.

Thud. Thud. Thud.

Those heavy, red-booted steps come around the corner. (I will not move.) We're face to face. (I will not abandon her.) They raise their weapons. (I will not let my purpose go unfulfilled.)

A rush of light… Can it be?! Yes… The Light! Haha! I can bring her back! I can bring—

BANG!

<|endoftext|>

Whether Windmills or Cranes

We set out "to challenge the unknown," he'd say. His quest was to become legend—to slay beasts and conqueror terrible lands. His quest was honorable… though, in the end, misguided. No, not in the end. Much sooner.

The flaw in his ambition became evident shortly after we crossed the western mire. At first I took his flights of fancy as playful enthusiasm—frivolous aggression free of consequence, a means of honing his focus and skill in advance of the dangers to come. But quickly, oh, so quickly, I found his mind was not in tune with reality. He was driven—pulled?—by his imagination.

Where any other would see the crippled ruins of an old-world crane—the snapped length of its long arm creaking in the breeze—he would see a demon, and in the cutting shrill of the swaying metal's cry he would hear a monster's ravenous shriek.

He had long talked of the adventures of his life past. "I am an anomaly," he would decree, "The lone Guardian whose past rings true, whose history is his guide."

He spoke about that dead life with such passion, in such detail, I not only wanted to believe… I did.

But as he charged the crane's age-poked carcass, I knew a truth that had haunted me since the carving of the Wicked Wood, some months gone: he was broken. His mind—unsettled. His truths—unfettered by fact, unbound by reality.

He had named the Wood, as he had the Howling Hills, the Dead Man's Crevasse, the Gorgon's Maze. All mundane landscapes marked as hazards to be conquered, enemies to be slain, as he weaved a mythic tale of his own grand—and as I would find, delusional—design.

In the Hills, he slaughtered wolves; he called them Hounds of Hell. In the Crevasse, he burned the remains of long-dead "survivors"; he called them Foot Soldiers of the Necro-King. Down in the Maze, he covered his tracks so that the Stone Mother would not—could not—follow.

He did all those things and none, because none of those things were true outside of his fraying mind. The wolves were simply rabid. The bones, no threat beyond a reminder of all we'd lost. The Maze? Just a canyon—one way in, one way out, a straight shot through.

As the crane fell and my Guardian issued his "killing blow," he laughed and then turned to me. His eyes… I could see he was gone—the one I'd returned all those cycles past replaced by a hollow shell filled with madness.

I do not know what broke him, or if he had ever been whole to begin with, but in that moment, as he spoke—the conquered husk of the Dragon of Summers' End, which wasn't really a dragon but simply a fragile old crane, lying defeated in his wake—I knew I would have to let him go… to end his slide into uncontrolled folly.

"Panza, old man," he started. "The Dragon is gone, but he yielded his treasure to me in a whisper… A secret so dire it may just save us all." He leaned closer and said in a hushed voice, as if sharing a confidence, "The Traveler is no gift—it is a lie… A beacon for death and destruction. Within be dragons, nurtured by our suffering, weaned on our hope. All dragons must die. The shell must be cracked till its yolk drowns those who worship its deceit. Our last great conquest. The crowning battle of our legend writ large." And then he shouted, "For Light to endure, the Traveler must perish!"

He was smiling. Confident. Manic.

Two days later he took a fall while challenging the Mountain Troll of Gallows Rock. It was a boulder. There was no troll. It crushed him. And though it caused me great pain—still to this day—

I did not return him. How could I?

His diseased imagination would surely doom us all.

—Panza, lamenting the unfortunate necessity of leaving his Guardian to remain unreturned

<|endoftext|>

Batteries Not Included

What follows are simple things. Use each as needed. Use each as you will.

These are not your strength, but may they bolster your might when the weight of expectation falls down upon thee.

When the wars rage around you, find your peace.
The Light is not of you, and you are not of the Light, and yet you are one.
Give of yourself, and you will find all that you fear is missing.
You are a hammer. You are a shield. Know the difference. Know yourself.
Trust is a weapon. Handle with care.
The burden is not yours alone, no matter the burden.
Should Darkness call, answer true, and it will shrink from the Light.
Wear your confidence with pride, but know it is a tool, not a weapon.
Be mindful of the joy found in victory—it is earned but should never be the aim.
For all you will see, all you discover—never lose the gift of curiosity.
The Darkness would bend you to its will, but the Light bends to yours.
Failure is an opportunity to learn.
If the bones talk, do not listen.
I am your guide and your friend, your ally and your tool. Use me.
I will never leave you, but should I fall, remain vigilant, remain true.

This isn't the whole of my life advice, but it's something. We'll add more as we go along.

—An unknown Ghost's life advice for an unknown Guardian

<|endoftext|>

To Map the Unknown

His neck snaps. He's dead on impact. I get him up and ask him how he feels. He says, "Fine." I ask him how it felt. He says, "Can't remember." I ask him if he learned anything. He says, "Nope. Let's go again." Same drop. Same distance. For the fifth time today, from this drop. This go, his trajectory is less headfirst, more parallel—on purpose, I think—varying the instance for a broader range within the experiment.

He hits almost flat. The sound is squishy—wet. Death is instant. I get him up, ask the same questions; get the same answers.

We've tried it all.

The sudden deaths—live fire, through every type of round and range imaginable. The gradual—asphyxiation from force, liquid, vacuum. The biological—super bugs, hazardous materials, radiation.

We've varied the duration of dying from immediate to over the course of years—multiple years. Time squandered on a quest for discovery that could have been better spent anywhere else.

I wasn't always skeptical, but there's an old saying about "learning from your mistakes" or "when to quit," or something like that. I don't know. But I do know futility when I see it.

We've tried it all. Nothing was learned. Others say differently. Others claim to have journeyed on the other side of death. "Where's your proof?" I say. "Death isn't the answer when life is right here, staring you in the face."

I say a lot of things. But here we are. My Guardian is soup at the base of a cliff two times the height of the Tower, and when I get him up, he is going to say some variation of, "I'm fine. Don't know. Let's do it again."

And we will. Because mapping the unknown means the answers you don't have could be the answers hiding on the other side of "one more try."

—A Ghost questioning the repetition of his Guardian's thanatonautic technique

<|endoftext|>

Splinter of Bone

Deep in the heart of the Prison of Elders, Variks of House Judgment clutched a splinter of bone as he watched the solar system burn.

The facility had been outfitted over the years with massive sensor grids slaved to arrays spread across the Reef. They gave him a detailed analysis of the Red Legion's fury. The light from the monitors was the only illumination in the room as his arms flew across the controls.

Relaying warnings to Petra and the Awoken. He could already see the remainder of the Awoken fleet disappearing off his scopes, going into hiding.

Relaying warnings to the City, though he could see he was far too late. Their comms were gone. There was no one left to listen.

Relaying warnings to his people. With the end of the Houses, there were so few who would listen. But if he could save even a handful…

While his hands worked, his eyes remained fixed on the screens, watching death, destruction, and horror.

In his role working with the Guardians of the City, he'd pored over the distress signal from the Dantalion Exodus VI. Source GREENRAVEN had sent bursts of analysis to the Tower at least a dozen times since the days of the Taken War. But he'd never expected numbers of this magnitude.

With the systems of the Last City offline, he had no problem dialing sensors over the Wall. He'd been able to see with clarity the home of Humanity with a resolution where he could make out parks and lakes and marketplaces.

These same sensors let him watch, grinding the bone in his mechanical fist, as people died. As the Great Machine was yoked, as the Guardians… fell.

Scrambling, he alerted the Crows… but something went wrong. The network had fallen dark—each and every Crow offline. All, that is, save for one. Through a garbled image he saw a hand, an Awoken hand, but it almost immediately fell to static. He wanted to care. He wanted to feel something for them. What dominated his thoughts, though—what made a ticking noise emanate deep in his voice synth—was the growing fear that the Queen's plan had failed.

He sat back in his chair. Thinking.

The Prison of Elders orbited far enough away from the core Awoken outposts, and thus far enough away from the Cabal's Phalanx, that it might come out of this unscathed. Nonetheless, he initiated lockdown procedures, prepared for the worst.

A comm ping. Confirmation: Petra Venj and the limited forces at her command evacuated what settlements they could and disappeared into the nooks and crannies of the Reef. She would be unable to send help to the Prison.

First House Judgment, then House Wolves. Then Kell Mara Sov. Now he could feel the rest of his adopted people slipping away from him.

With one of his mechanical arms, he crushed the splinter of bone to dust.

<|endoftext|>

Less Is More

Variks watched Petra's Corsairs march their latest prize into the cellblock: a gaggle of Ether-starved Dregs bearing the mark of the Scorned Barons. Nearby, Petra drummed her fingers along the hilt of her knife; her eyes glinted with envy.

She held onto this prison as if it was the last thing she could control. Perhaps it was. Between the scattered remnants of the Red Legion and the Scorned Barons running rampant through the Reef, the Awoken had little left to call their own.

There was little left of the Awoken.

Variks sighed. Only a true Kell understood that survival was not a game of waiting. And Petra Venj, for all her military prowess, was no Kell.

"In a world without Kells, Dreg strength will breed nothing but chaos." Variks whispered to himself the old Rain proverb, wishing for the return of the decisive days of his Queen. His Kell.

"What did you say?" Petra asked without looking at him.

"Chaos," he replied. "These Dregs breed chaos."

Petra scoffed. "They're Fallen. And where there's Fallen, there will inevitably be Guardians." She turned on her heel and walked away. "I leave you to your Judgment, Variks. Locate the hole in which these Scorned Barons cower." She stopped. Turned back to him. "Might want to up your rations. You're looking a bit… gaunt."

She smiled, patted him on the back, and continued on her way.

He watched her go. If his anatomy allowed for it, he would have smiled in kind. Hers was a heart always in the right place… even if the outcome of her decisions was less than ideal. She did not, however, fully appreciate the threat these "Scorned" Barons posed. He had tried to warn her when they were just seven Dregs and a heretical Archon. Now their terror was spreading throughout the Reef with more and more Fallen answering the Barons' anarchistic call.

She was right about one thing though: He could stand to increase his intake. The thought of it made Variks thirsty for the flow. Like all of his kind since the appearance of the Red Legion, he had been forced to ration his intake. He'd never felt so weak, so close to death. But he would survive as he always had.

Variks knew the time would inevitably come when he would have to survive on his own.

<|endoftext|>

Roll Call

After the Taken War, the Scorned Barons banded together in a time of weakness to become strong, to prey on anyone and anything that practiced the old Eliksni ways. They began with the one thing their people needed to survive: Ether. In a way, the Barons had become heads of a new House, priests in their own rites, and arbiters of their own trials.

The terror they unleashed had almost grown as powerful as any Kell. These heathens were not Eliksni; they were more "Fallen" than any of their brethren. They were everything Judgment had sought to purge before the Whirlwind—and now, they sat rotting deep in the Prison of Elders. Cayde and his "Six" had done good by their word.

Variks's staff tapped lightly on the floorplates, and chuckling noises emanated from his throat. He hobbled past their cells as the Servitors hummed to life.

Feeding time.

He saw hatred in every cell he passed. Bathed in the light of flowing Ether, their eyes carved at his flesh, saw him docked a thousand times more.

Yaviks, the Rider, the Untamed. She and her crew spread terror and disease with their noxious pikes.

Elykris, the Machinist. She used stolen Cabal telemetry and gravity traps to sabotage vessels, relieve them of their cargo, and haul the hulks back to their own shipyard chop shops.

Pirrha the Blind, the Ghost of Hellrise Cavern, who haunted the Baron's territory with phantom decoys and ended all trespassers from the shadows.

Reksis Vahn, the Godslayer, the Hangman. He had secreted away the Ether stores of his victims and driven the Barons and their followers into a frenzy with that tainted feast.

Arakses, the Wit. The Traitor. The Trickster. A mastermind. A liar, thief, and backstabber.

Kaniks Two-Finger, the Mad Bomber. The dangers of the Reef had multiplied a hundred-fold with his mines hidden on every rock and dusty corner of the belt.

And the most disgusting of them all, Hiraks, the Mindbender. This one found in the Hive a way to infect the minds of the Eliksni.

Only one was missing.

Fikrul. The Heretic. The Fanatic. One Variks once dared to call friend, back when the Archon tended to Kaliks Primes. Before his betrayal. He hoped the Fanatic was dead; Cayde assured that he was. And what was Cayde-6 if not reliable?

Laughing, burbling to himself, Variks shut off the lights in the hallway. And the Barons were plunged once again into darkness.

<|endoftext|>

Job Undone

In the Prison of Elders' security hub, Variks brooded.

When the Great Machine woke, he had been sure he felt something deep within him stir. He had hoped it would give him answers, power, anything. All it did was remind him how far he had fallen.

He slammed a fist on his console, watching the denizens of the prison claw at their cell walls. No, not nothing. Worse than nothing. Now he had doubt.

His goal had always ever been a simple one. The banner of House Judgment, the calling to which he had been born. Keep his people together.

With the Light now streaming across the system and nothing to show for it—no Queen, no Eris or Osiris, and no sign the Great Machine remembered the Eliksni—what was there to look forward to? Base survival. One day after the other. Living just because he still drew breath. And where was the Dreg strength in that? What was the…

"Variks." Petra burst through the comms. "A Legion Harvester has been intercepted at bearing 189. Capture teams are inbound. Survivors for the arena. Prepare to receive."

Petra Venj was all that was left for him here, and despite himself, he nodded at the sound of her voice. He had but one ally left, after all.

He keyed the comms. "Yes, yes, yes. Bay 41. Bring them in, will meet team. Will make room for new… guests." His vocal synth burbled, needing tuning.

"Copy that." She was gone.

He picked up his staff from where it leaned against the wall and began the long walk to the bay. Mulling his options, his information. His secrets.

Secrets had protected the House of Judgment. The more knowledge one could obfuscate, the more significant one became. Secrets bred possibility. Secrets bred… sway.

But Judgment, true Judgment, required hierarchy. And Eliksni hierarchy died with the fall of the Houses. The Guardians had picked them apart, Kell by Kell, Prime by Prime. Now, there was all but nothing left of his culture—only pirates and scavengers and lone wolves like the days before the Edge Wars. No trust, no honor, no way to be… necessary.

Yet one final hope among the Eliksni still thrived. Craask, Kell of Kings. The Kings understood Judgment, for together they ended the Edge Wars in their people's golden age. Craask. His last hope to see his dreams of a united Eliksni made manifest. He must make contact.

And so he hired a bounty hunter named Groks to find Craask and remind them of their need for one another. Groks is emblematic of all that Variks despises in his people—gluttonous, proud, and in it only for himself. When they spoke, Groks made Variks pay with a litany of insults.

Variks the Slip. Variks the Beggar. Variks the Kell-Maker. But it was all for show. Groks would work; and it came for a mere four bales of Etheric Helix and a promise to keep him free of the Prison of Elders. The deal struck, Groks burst out in hysterical laughter.

"Ha! Consider job done, Slip!" Groks spoke in a low form of Eliksni, the only reason Variks employed him. "You have grown desperate with your 'Kell' gone. Have you not heard?"

Variks sighed.

"King Kell is gone, Kell-Maker. Dead at the hands of that insane Archon, Fikrul, and some Awoken vagabond he calls 'Father.' What remains of the Kings huddles now in the dead zones of Earth, under the shadow of the Great Machine's Shard. I expect my four bales in—"

Variks killed the feed. The last link in the great Eliksni chain was broken. If there were any who called themselves Kell out there, they would not know Variks, Judgment, or the laws that governed the Houses. The scattered children of the Whirlwind were dead.

But… Fikrul survived Cayde and his Six? Groks was a lot of things, but he was not a liar. If Fikrul was alive and strong enough to kill Craask… And who was this Awoken vagabond of which Groks spoke? His mind reeled. So long as Fikrul lived, the Reef was not safe. He scrambled through his comm channels, searching for the right connection.

"Master Cayde. Variks requests to meet you regarding your deal with Petra, a job undone."

<|endoftext|>

Some Kind of Luck

Variks hid beneath a bannerless cloak as he descended into Spider's lair. To wear the Judgment sigil in the Tangled Shore would be to invite death. Even with the Spider's blessing to pass, he would have been picked clean and docked two times over.

The hedonistic sounds of Spider's Palace scraped against him. Shouts of victory and defeat reminded Variks of the worst of the Eliksni. His peoples' inherent need for superiority reduced to gambling for trinkets and gems.

Variks searched the crowd, hunched down low. Just another Vandal. In the corner, the unmistakable crowd that surrounded the Hunter Vanguard when he was outside the City.

He worked his way through the onlookers to take up position alongside Cayde. The Hunter noticed him, he was sure, but said nothing. Variks, for his part, was silent. Watched as he lost a few thousand Glimmer and a sidearm to one of Spider's bodyguards.

Cayde spun a knife in his right hand and sighed dramatically. "If we're going to talk, you're going to buy me a drink."

They found a quiet place at the end of the room. Cayde settled back in the booth. Waiting.

"You do great service to Reef, yes?" Variks worked hard to keep his very recognizable voice down. It would be a shame for his vocal synth to malfunction and blare out across the room now. "Capture Barons. Criminals. For Awoken. For Petra."

Cayde took a belt and set the glass down on the table, empty. Something hard around his eyes. Amazing how expressive Exos could be. "Get to the point, Variks."

"Fikrul. The last Scorned Baron. He lives."

Cayde's horn cut an arc through the air as he shook his head, twice, definitive. "Trust me. He's dead. Put a hot one right through here." He poked Variks right in the center of his chest.

"Seen on Earth. I have knowledge. I have information. You know Eliksni have ways. Like Mithrax? Like Taniks?" The warden realized his error as soon as the name was out of his mouth.

"Don't you EVER mention the name Taniks around me, got it? Not unless you want to lose your last two real arms. We're done. Get. You're bad luck." The Hunter stood, made to leave. Variks reached out and grabbed the Vanguard by the arm with one of his mechanic hands.

"I am sorry. I spoke poorly. Please. Listen."

Cayde shrugged off the arm and stood, towering over the Fallen for once.

Variks sat up straighter in the booth. "Take me to Zavala." The Titan Vanguard's name was a punctuated, flowing stutter in his mouth. "I have information. He will like what I say. You for bringing me to him."

Cayde blinked. "You want me to take you to the City? No way, bug. Not in a million…"

With a thud, Variks dropped the hand cannon he'd been hiding in his cloak on the table: a dull brown, bristles out the top, Ethertech trigger and muzzle assembly. Cayde's eyebrows went up in surprise.

"A gift of trust. Memento of the Reef. Upgraded, yes? Very deadly."

The Hunter Vanguard tried to hide his excitement. "Is. Uh. Is that the last one? I haven't seen one of those in…"

"One of the last. Not many left." Variks' voice was even, calm.

Cayde snatched the weapon from the table. Checked the sights, spun it in his hand for a moment, feeling the weight. Grunted, satisfied. Nodded.

"Like I said: bad luck. C'mon. You can ride with me."

<|endoftext|>

Overestimation

Variks had never seen the Vanguard Commander in person before. The images he'd seen were either candid shots from agents or images from co-opted surveillance that didn't reveal the man's true stature. Most of Zavala's "bulk," he realized, was the armor. He was a lean man, in reality. Taut muscle and sinew.

But as Variks stood before him, he realized Zavala's poise and confidence, along with his Light, controlled the space around him. Lent him an air of authority Variks had not felt since standing in the presence of Mara Sov herself. Even Cayde, of all people, seemed somehow different in the orbit of this man.

Fascinating.

Behind the Light and the poise, Variks could see where the great Zavala's strength ended and anxiety began. That was where Variks needed to meet him and prove his worth.

"Vanguard Commander Zavala." Variks dropped to his knees and extended his hands palms up on the ground, sure to keep eye contact. A Judgment gesture meant to acknowledge that a dominant force was present.

Cayde snickered behind him, but said nothing.

"Variks came to offer assistance. To help the Vanguard. The Guardians, who have helped the Reef."

Zavala stared Variks down. The Judgment scribe saw much in that moment. Fortitude. Intensity. Desperation.

"On your feet, Variks." Zavala was quite used to giving commands and having them followed. Variks did as he was commanded. "What do you want?"

"A future for the Reef." Zavala eyes were searching. Variks croaked and continued. "Reefborn are close to doom, Zavala the Awoken. Fallen, Taken, Red Legion. All carve at the Reef. All claim its flesh."

"I made my offer to Petra after the war." His voice was gruff, but not uncaring. "She made her choice. Are you saying something has changed?

"I say this, Commander." Variks burbled. "And I have so much more to say to a true leader such as you."

<|endoftext|>

Unknown Space

The light seemed to dance in blue over the horizon of Unknown Space, but all else was black.

Tendrils seemed to grow with the light. Where they were reaching from or stretching toward, he could not comprehend. Fear gripped Variks's mind. The paths before him were vast, uncertain. And for the first time in his life, he could sense Judgment turned inward.

"Your will must remain your own," he told himself. "You are the last Eliksni of House Judgment. The destiny of your people is in your hands. You will save them. You will stand for the Fallen."

YOU WALK AMONG THEM, BECAUSE YOU HAVE FAILED.

The voice, soft and yet so strong, echoed around him in the space. Through him, like he was a string on an instrument.

"I walk among the children of Earth and the blessed of the Great Machine, the one they call Traveler, because they have been chosen."

FOR YOU THE GREAT MACHINE IS A DARK MIRROR.

Variks felt cold unlike he had ever known. Unbidden, memories rushed past him. All he could do was hang on as the last days of the Eliksni played out in his mind.

He and his fellow scribes passing Judgment in their soft, furred robes. Then the Whirlwind, the Elders torn apart, the pillaging of the House. Variks, kneeling before a window, staring up at the Great Machine. Watching it vanish. The long journey in the darkness.

His flight to run with the Wolves, his pleas to Skolas. The pact with Fikrul to sever Kaliks Prime and secret it away. The Prime vanishing… And again Fikrul, on the horizon, preparing to give the Fallen what they so rightfully deserve…

THERE IS ONLY ONE PATH LEFT FOR YOU HERE, IN A PLACE WHERE EVERYTHING DIES…

…AND BEGINS ANEW.

With that, a new power burned, affording him the strength to rise again. Judgment cast—

The screaming pulse of the prison alarms stirred Variks awake.

On the comms, he heard Petra's voice. Cayde had returned.

<|endoftext|>

Two Cells

Petra called for not one, but two cells. Variks finished his Ether, considering. Perhaps Cayde had finally found Fikrul—and for that, Variks would need every drop of strength he could muster.

His strides were long and slow as he allowed the Ether to course through him, his posture growing taller and more commanding with each step. At the top of the maxsec wing, his hands flew over the controls. He prepared the two empty cells and ordered extraction Servitors into place, all the while reveling in the thought of the judgment of Fikrul. Finished, he stepped back and waited.

Snarling, yelling, the prisoners entered the wing. One, an Eliksni, Petra shoved hard into one of the two cryo-cells. The Fallen landed, weak, and Petra sealed the cell door.

Variks was all too pleased to see the hulking, disgraced Fikrul—the lifeline of the Scorned Barons, his once trusted co-conspirator and great betrayer—seething as the extraction Servitors whirred to life, sapping the heretical Archon of his precious Ether. Variks and Fikrul looked deep into one another's eyes, centuries of history passing between them in the space of a heartbeat.

Fikrul laughed.

Unnerved, Variks stepped away as Cayde dragged a ragged, humanoid figure—head bagged, face unseen. Cayde unceremoniously tore off the hood and tossed the humanoid—an Awoken man—into the open cell.

"And stay there!" Cayde said. His joke fell flat.

On hands and knees, the stranger looked up at his captors to reveal a familiar mess of crow-black hair, blue skin, and piercing yellow eyes.

"Variks…"

It was the face of Uldren Sov—brother to the Queen, prince of the Awoken, and heir to the Reef.

<|endoftext|>

Reacquaintance

"Your Grace…" Variks couldn't help but use the title. Like a reflex.

As he looked into the prince's eyes, he saw a fleeting shadow of darkness dance across their normal ethereal golden glow. Variks looked back to Petra.

"Petra Venj… I—I do not understand."

"I know. It's… Something's wrong with him, Variks. He's… mad. Lock him down—lock down the entire cellblock. No one in but you or me. Speak of this to no one. As far as the system is concerned, Uldren Sov died over Saturn."

Variks looked to Cayde for answers, but the Exo just threw up his hands in defense.

"Don't look at me. Prince Whiny Face and Fikrul were thick as thieves when we found them. All I could do not to shoot either of them."

Petra nodded toward the now royal cell, and Variks, with only a hint of hesitation, sealed the hatch, locking Prince Uldren in.

"Now, Variks," Cayde said, smooth as ever, "you let me know if Fikrul here ever comes up to the arena. He and I have a conversation to finish."

"Of course. Of course." Variks noticed Petra's gaze lingered a little too long on the prince's cell. He could see she was troubled, even ashamed. Petra saw him watching and composed herself, back straight, all Wrath. She met his eyes. He could see her trouble, her shame.

"Variks. My friend." Was that tenderness Variks heard in Petra's voice? "He is changed. His eyes…" She stopped herself. Reset. "If he speaks, don't listen. He speaks lies. Terrible lies." And with that, she walked away, Cayde close behind. The doors to the cellblock slammed shut behind them.

Variks stood there for a long, long time. For the first time in his life, he didn't know what the next step should be.

Petra Venj and Uldren Sov had long admired one another; there was an easiness about them when they were together, and a deep if unspoken affection. When the two of them joined forces in the field of battle, they were quick, effective, and dangerous. Theirs was a dance of death, and woe to the foe who met them in open combat.

Variks wondered for what crimes Petra would have Uldren judged. As he reopened the prince's cell, he wondered if Petra would have Variks himself judged.

Variks knelt before Uldren. "We thought you dead. But you are in my care now, yes?" His arms carefully brushed at the Awoken man, probing but gentle.

Uldren blinked and looked toward him—or rather, his golden eyes looked beyond him. Variks looked over his shoulder, just to check. Of course, no one was there.

"Sister…" Uldren croaked through dried, cracked lips. "What's to become of us now?"

<|endoftext|>

Revolution

The explosion of Servitors snapped Variks away from the pull of the prince's words. He tried to move quickly, but one of his toes caught awkwardly on the grated catwalk, and he stumbled to the floor. He lifted his head to see the extraction Servitors lying shattered and lifeless, hissing as Ether evaporate wafted into the air.

Variks rose, moving cautiously, slowly, uncertain who or what might be loose. He checked every seal of Fikrul's cell, then gathered enough courage to peer into the porthole.

Fikrul was unaffected. If anything, he looked stronger than he did before. He stood there, glaring, a devilish grin plastered across his face. "Does it find my Ether… bitter?" he growled.

Indeed, Variks could see that something was wrong with this Ether. It was darker, tainted with something he could not identify. He tightened the seals of his mask as he examined the Servitors' remains, fearing whatever they pulled from Fikrul could be toxic. He moved through the fog-like gas as if it was water. It didn't dissipate like traditional Ether;  it lingered, heavy and opaque.

Variks stepped back up to Fikrul's cell. Activated the transmission mic.

"Fikrul, asaalii akisoriks," he seethed, using the High Speak of Judgment, hoping that Fikrul might still respect the oldest law.

"Ah, Variks. You cling to Judgment like Rain clung to lies." Fikrul spat his words the way the Houseless would.

"You are Houseless. You are filth. Is this what you've done with Kaliks, served the last Prime to the Taken? Is that the blood you now breathe?"

"Ha! You still believe I have Kaliks. Fool. Kaliks abandoned us. But my Ether… It's true Fikrul is no longer enslaved to the machines' Ether. By the grace of the Awoken Father, I have evolved."

Variks looked back to the prince's cell, still open. The Awoken Father…

Variks ambled back to the prince. With each step, he heard more clearly. He saw Uldren sitting up now, nodding, listening, peering into the shadows at something unseen. If ever there was a picture of malevolent insanity, this was it.

The prince spoke.

"Yes, Sister. I see it now. The army of the reviled that you promised me…"

<|endoftext|>

The Spark

Variks, ever the Loyal, did as Petra commanded: Access to the lowest cellblock was reserved strictly to the Warden and the Regent-Commander. Unfortunately, this meant that every menial operational task was left to him. Meal distribution. Waste disposal. Between the eight Barons and the Awoken prince, his new chores left him little time for Judgment.

Thrice per day, he visited the block. And thrice per day, he had to manufacture excuses to the local Corsair detachment for why the lowest level of the prison was now off limits. Rumors swirled. It was not unknown that Petra and Cayde-6 had smuggled some unknown high-value prisoner—a humanoid prisoner no less, a first for the Prison of Elders if the rumors were true. But Variks assured anyone with the gumption to ask that his Judgment of the Scorned Barons was a sensitive process to be conducted in private.

Petra herself did not help extinguish the scuttle. She was less than adept at the art of secrecy, and everyone knew it. She responded to any bold queries with a stern, "It is none of your concern," which itself was tantamount to a validation that some version of the rumors was true. If only she'd found joy in her Techeun training; if only she'd learned more from the Queen.

Each time Variks performed his rounds, he asked himself what loyalty—if any—he owed to the prince. And each time, he stopped short when he bore witness to the prince's… ramblings. Today was no different. There Uldren sat, elbows atop knees, staring into the same dark corner of the cell, face concealed by his long, black hair, seemingly communing with nothing.

"I see now… Yes, that's good, so good."

More listening; more nodding.

"Then that's what we shall do. And look, Sister, he is already here."

Uldren fell into silence, visibly relaxing. After a moment, he looked back over his shoulder and through the porthole to meet Variks's eyes.

"Your Grace," Variks burbled.

"Variks the Loyal." Uldren smirked. "Variks the Spark. Did you have something to say to me, or are you content to play the spying crow?" And there it was again—that fleeting pass of inky darkness that momentarily snuffs the glow of Uldren's eyes. So Variks said nothing. Whether frozen in terror or simply at a loss for words, he could not say.

Uldren leaned in, placed a finger against his lips, and spoke low: "I have a secret for you, Variks. I know you want to hear it."

Variks answered with a single, drawn out, and ever-so-slight nod.

"Your Kell lives," Uldren whispered. He leaned in a little closer and asked the one question Variks had never been able to answer: "Do you know where your TRUE loyalty lies, Variks?"

Uldren didn't wait for a response. His eyes almost immediately darted over his shoulder, toward the shadowy corner that has become his obsession.

"Of course we can trust him, dear Sister. He is the most loyal…"

<|endoftext|>

Chain of Souls

Variks admired his masterpiece, the improvised Servitor chain that would finally reveal the secrets of his fanatical former friend.

Unfortunately, Fikrul refused talk of the past, would speak only of the future. Or of Uldren, his Awoken "father," who snatched him from the edge of death and awakened within him a power never before seen in the Eliksni. A power over death itself. A power to remake their people and thrive in a universe of Light and Dark that had both forsaken them and left them scorned.

Variks knew these feelings all too well. It was here, in the deepest catacombs of the Prison of the Elders, where he thrived, where he worked to rebuild the Eliksni. This was his home now, this workspace where he was free to explore the "potential" of the prison's inmates for future leverage. The emerald marrow worm-food of the Hive, the prismatic viruses of the Vex, Psion Flayer wavelengths—each of these secrets had been wrested free within these dank halls, traded among his networks for more secrets, or harnessed into weapons for the Awoken.

But the secrets of Fikrul's… mutation… eluded him. The power within was obvious. Scattered about the floor was the evidence of its potency—as well as too many nights of failure: wrecked sentry Servitors, dozens of deflated Dregs, all pulled from the upper cellblocks to act as his "assistants." Whatever this cold unnatural cocktail was that coursed through Fikrul, it could not be transferred or ingested like the Ether his people needed to sustain their wretched lives.

Variks was all too ready to give up, send Fikrul into the arena to face Cayde-6, and put an end to the legacy of the Scorned Barons—until one day, during Variks's rounds, Uldren spoke to him unprompted. There was a lucidity in the discarded prince's eyes, a clarity that didn't exist even before he disappeared over Saturn's rings. Uldren gave Variks a… fresh perspective.

And so, the chain. It was a dangerous gamble, mingling Fikrul's polluted lifeblood with traditional Ether. These Servitors held seventy percent of Variks's own Ether reserves. If this failed… well, it wouldn't be the first time Variks had risked everything and lost.

Variks pulled the lever.

The hum of the Servitor chain crescendoed, but all he heard was the lingering echo of Uldren's poisonous question: Do you know where your true loyalty lies, Variks?

But if it worked—perhaps Fikrul could be cured. Perhaps—if what Variks suspected was true, and Fikrul's corruption was related to the Prince's affliction—Uldren could be cured, too.

Variks had said as much to Petra, but she'd refused to listen.

"You will not experiment on the Prince."

"Our Prince is ill. To keep him here… hide him from Awoken eyes… not right. Not right."

"I've made my decision, Variks."

Variks's fingers flexed. "Petra, the Loyal," he sneered. "Perhaps the murmurs of Kamala Rior are true, yes?"

Petra glowered. "I will handle Uldren. You will not touch him."

She'd turned sharply on her heel and strode out. Variks hadn't seen her since.

He devoted all his time to the Servitor chain—and to his private thoughts.

<|endoftext|>

Where Loyalty Lies

Variks's experiment succeeded, but not how he expected.

Ingestion of the Etheric concoction still resulted in Fallen death; it was not, by any means, a life-sustaining substance. It was, however, a life-GIVING substance. Though the dark Ether lingered like a heavy fog, it also seemed to reach out toward empty vessels. In this case, it found the dead Dregs that littered his floor. It slipped inside the corpses like a slow inhalation, inflating them, stretching them to the point of boils and bursting, pulling them to their feet. The dark Ether gave these lifeless Dregs… new life.

They seethed. Their breathing was steady, but hard and fast. They rumbled as if volcanoes lived inside their chests. A black fire rose from their skin as they burned this dark Ether like a jet engine burns its fuel. What Variks really saw before him was hate-fueled rage incarnate and the beginning of another Whirlwind. They were no longer just Fallen. Fikrul called them his Scorn.

Behind him, Fikrul laughed and laughed and laughed until—he abruptly stopped. At that exact moment, the Scorn dropped to the floor, dead once more.

"Your scribes, your Kells, your Houses—they will all soon be forgotten, like the Elders and the Skaith before them," Fikrul growled in Variks's precious High Speak of Judgment. This drew Variks closer, face to face through the cell's porthole.

Fikrul turned his ear upward, listening. Brought his attention back to Variks. "Father says…" The pause hung heavy in the air. "Father says… You know where your true loyalty lies."

The Fanatic stepped back from the porthole and waited.

Loyalty. True loyalty.

He expected a memory of Mara to appear in his mind. But instead—

Instead he found himself thinking about the prophecies of House Rain.

Kell of Kells.

Days later, Variks performed his duties for the last time. He visited central control. Ran a test sim on the security systems, made some adjustments based on the results. Revised and signed off on the daily roster rotations. Finally, he had a private conversation with the prison's sole remaining High Servitor: The Prison of Elders would not go without a warden.

He did not speak to Petra.

By the end of that day, the Prison of Elders descended into chaos.

"Your time WILL come, Variks."

Uldren sits in his favorite spot, gazing in his favorite direction. "She told me so. She has but one last wish of you."

"No, your grace." Variks' voice was gravelly with emotion. "It is I who has one last service for you."

Variks left before he could change his mind.

A klaxon blared. The voice of the prison's High Servitor echoed over the loudspeakers—in Variks's voice. "Security systems malfunction. Emergency shutdown and reboot commencing."

The place dropped momentarily into darkness, but emergency lighting quickly illuminated the cellblock. All around him, alarms sounded, warning lights flashed, pneumatics hissed, and cryogenic fluids evaporated to fog as the cryo-cells lining this cellblock began to open.

Variks moved as quickly as he could toward the exit, not bothering to look back, for he knew what he'd see.

The Scorned Barons and Prince Uldren were free.

As was every single resident of the Prison of Elders.

Variks slipped out, under cover of prison anarchy, through the same secret passage in which Petra and Cayde had smuggled Prince Uldren. There, a ship waited, loaded with the Prison's Ether stores.

As he walked, he made two recordings to be sent out by the Prison's relays once he was away. For the first, he disabled his voice synth and began, in the deep resonance of High Speak, to give commands.

He didn't know how many would answer Judgment's call. But he had to try.

For the second, he turned his voice synth back on. "They call me betrayer. I who was most loyal. They do not think I hear the words. Bug. Insect." He paused. "Fallen."

Up, long strides, fast now, along the ramp into the ship. Toward the bridge. A vandal in Wolf colors saluted him as he passed.

"I hear the words. House of Judgement always hears. No choice. To keep the Houses together." He paused again, as he reached the bridge of his ship. "Judgment always hears."

"The Great Machine stood in Judgment. Eliksni fell to fighting. Fell to hate." Emotion caught in his voice. "Cannot stomach this hate." As he spoke, the ship's engines rumbled to life. On the screens, Variks could see explosions resonating through the Prison. His former charges running rampant. His ship passed through the bay's barrier and began to move off.

"Nowhere else to go. No one else to be, here." He drew himself up to his full height. "And so I become Variks, the Kell. House Judgment envoy to the Eliksni people."

"No choice." He repeated, chuckling deep in his throat. His voice was calm. "Eliksni must rise… yes?"

<|endoftext|>

I: An Introduction to Consequence

We must each walk our own path, find our own way, every step forward unique to the lives we've led, the choices we've made. Yet we're connected. All of us. By choice. By consequence. By random luck, and those steps taken and decisions made. Our individual lives shaped by the person we were, the person we are, the person we claim to be, the person we hope to be—the stages of our singular existence. Or so we tell ourselves, lost as we are in our own stories. In truth, there is no "I," no singular existence. Never has been. Never will be. You. Me. Your fireteam and friends. Your allies and enemies. All lives move with—collide with—other lives, for better or worse, to form the whole of a lifetime (lifetimes?).

It took me a long time to understand this: None of us are alone. I call it the "first understanding"—it's a bit of an inside joke. But I think maybe you get it. In fact, I'm quite certain you do. That's why I'm writing you. That's why now, after a life removed from the bigger picture, I'm risking everything I am on a simple bet—that you are different. That you are better. Than me. Than them—those who would tempt the dark.

This is what I want—need—you to understand. Your path is not your own. It is shared. It has impact. It carries consequence and creates wake, both obvious and unseen. And the path you're currently walking is… concerning. For yourself, whether you see it or not. More importantly, for others. For those you may—those you will—influence. Collisions yet to come. New paths unimagined. Collateral impacts beyond the narrow view of your own life. Have you considered this? I ask not to sway you; you will find your way, and I will hold off judgment until judgment is necessary. I ask because we are at our best when considering the fallout of our intentions—good or bad, grand or small. That's all I'm after, here and now…

Your consideration. 

Of the deeds left behind. And deeds yet to come.

Who do you claim to be? Who do you hope to be? And how do the ripples of those answers expand to touch the lives around you?

Think on your life and your actions. And continue ever forward.

I will help where I can, with knowledge gained from a life hunting the very dangers you tempt. And though we'll never meet—our paths crossing at a distance as we each seek to confront all that drives us—from this moment on, our lives will never be the same.

My name is Shin Malphur. And I believe you, Guardian, are the hope I was told was a lie.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

II: For Fear of the Conquering Hero

I knew a man once. Some claim he was a monster, and I agreed for a very long time. Anymore, I refuse to honor him with the power such labels imply. "Monster." "Beast." "Other." Terrors meant to frighten—meant to weaken, meant to control. There are no monsters. Only the broken and the misunderstood. Still terrifying, sure. But knowable. Conquerable. Unworthy of the power they possess. This man, clad in black and misshapen by the weight of his sins, professed to wield hope as a weapon, to offer it as a crutch, a beacon he saw as false promise. "Nothing dies like hope," he'd say. And was right. The loss of hope stings like no other. But he knew something else—a truth he would not share, a truth muddied by his words and deeds and the grim menace of his presence. And that truth?

Hope is eternal. 

It may fade. It may get lost in the pain and suffering of existence. But it's always there. Somewhere. Hidden maybe, in plain sight or far from view.

This man who craved fear, who inflicted its curse on all he encountered, once conquered the life or death game that would become your training ground. Seeing you, and other Guardians, enforce your will over your fellow champions of the Light is reminiscent of the ease with which he was said to dispatch his rivals. But you are not his equal. None are. Not Lord Shaxx. Not Commander Zavala. None of his "shadows" or the new breed who wear his title like a badge of honor. "Dredgen" means "abyss." It is an ancient tongue. Not Human. Not Hive. Just forgotten arcana—another layer of uncertainty and fear draped around a bastard to provide comfort against his sins. It means "nothing." It is a void. As is his path. And while you enjoy your victories and embrace the competitive fires of the Crucible, I would ask you to reflect once more upon yourself…

Do you find joy in the challenge, or in the pain you inflict upon your "enemies"? Do you revel in the thrill of facing your equal in combat—in testing the limits of your might? Or do you take pleasure in the breaking of their spirit?  

Reflect on the answers you find. Seek yourself within the truth of your deeds. Are you a hero or are you a conqueror? One can harness the other, but the opposite is not true. 

For what it's worth, I see both in you. 

—S.

<|endoftext|>

III: A Fire Inside

How did it feel? Hunting the Crow—tracking him through the tangled wilds of the Reef? Hunting the Barons—one-by-one, stalking the cutthroats who killed your friend? Was it righteous? Or pure, anger—vengeance driven by a lust for "justice"?

I know the feeling. I know the sensation—loss, followed by a hole so big you can't fill it with anything but retribution. I've felt that hole twice. First when everything I'd known was turned to ash. I was just a child then. No way of knowing when, or if, the pain would end. A man—Jaren, my third father—helped redirect that pain. Give me purpose. Taught me to hunt. Taught me to survive. Taught me about vengeance. 

It felt good—like a fire inside. Or so I thought. In truth, the "good" was just a dulling of the pain—a covering up of the burden of my loss through the redirection of my focus. Why be sad? Why be broken? When you can be angry. And so I was. For a long time.

After Jaren died—killed by the would-be monster and his Weapon of Sorrow—I hated him for a good while. I was alone again. Lost. I had no direction. I felt abandoned—just me and the hole left by losing everything I knew

The man who'd destroyed my life twice over—first the burning of Palamon, my home, then the murder of my mentor and father-figure—still walked the wilds, but I was just a young man, angry and frightened. Vengeance—the fire inside me—was a weight, not a comfort, because I lacked the confidence needed to see it through. 

I spent a long time mad—at the murderer who played in shadows, at Jaren for leaving me, at the world, at myself for being lost, at Jaren's Ghost for not believing in me. My anger defined me. As did yours. For a short while. What I wonder is, have you ever considered…

Cayde's death was not the origin of your recent aggression, but simply a catalyst for its release. That it's possible this whole second life of yours has been driven by vengeance: for the life you lost before your return as a Guardian, for the world—worlds—lost to the Great Collapse. Are you truly fighting to protect and reclaim, or have you been fighting this whole time to avenge?

What are you fighting for now? Does your anger define you?

If yes, if no—what are the consequence of either? Honestly. Truly. Ask yourself…

What are you fighting for? And can you feel a fire—even a spark—welling up inside of you?

—S.

<|endoftext|>

IV: Something New

I've hunted Guardians. You know this. I've hunted Guardians on the path you now tread. Not the same path—their own. But similar—of a kind. Some have seen the error of their ways sooner than others. I'm not a murderer, but I have—when necessity dictated a drawing of arms. I prefer the alternative. I prefer less finite measures. But I've found most who choose this life—a life in search of answers mired in shadow—rarely grasp the extent of their actions. Few reflect. Few actually understand. I've seen the damage done by those who would control the uncontrollable. I won't allow it to repeat. To the best of my ability, I will stand against the corruption and challenge all who let the whispers in.

Yet, here we are. You, a Guardian worthy of legend, dancing ever closer to the edge of an abyss. And I, one who stands against those who would tempt such a fate. Yet I, for the first time, haven't moved to stop the music. 

This is something new.

That you and I could share these words is something new—there's something in you, something about you.

Not just bravery—I've seen that come and go. Not just might—the greatest fools I've ever known have also been the greatest warriors. You're curious, but your curiosity is not a weapon—it is a tool. And somewhere in there—in the merging of courage and might and curiosity—I see something worthy of a risk.

So go forth. Fight for the Light, and challenge the dark. I will be watching with a hopeful heart.

But know, should you overreach—should the consequences of the steps you take catch innocents in your wake, should your path veer blindly toward the perversion of your will and the whispers become your truth—I will be there to end it. And you. But you already knew I was going to say that. 

Understand, this is not a threat, it's just the way of things.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

V: Echoes Followed by Silence

I've done my best to offer myself as a voice of reason as you've continued down this road. I have few facts to offer you, only experience—the truth of my being. But here's another truth—

I've told you very little that is new. Every word. Every question. Each time I've implored you to reflect. I was nudging you down a path you had already chosen. To consider your actions is at the core of you. I have seen it. I have heard of it—in the words of your fellow Guardians as they recount your feats—your courage, your selflessness. You may tread the razor's edge of damnation, but you are, at your very heart, a just and noble warrior.

If I played any hand in expanding your consideration of the people and worlds around you. If I've helped you take better stock of all you are and all you are capable of becoming. So be it. But it was all—all of it—already inside of you.

This isn't a pep talk. This isn't a signal boost for your hero's ego. I am saying this because I know things you do not know—from experience. 

Right now, I imagine you are questioning your true nature, "Who is this 'renegade' to define me? My thoughts? My actions?" Could be you've been warned about me. Could be, maybe, you're a little scared. After all, "the man with the golden gun doesn't play well with others." I leave all that nonsense to you. But by way of a quick word in defense of my intentions…

If they were anything but in your best interest, this conversation would've been had with lead, not words. And it would've been your last.

And while you have dark thoughts, and are no saint, we are all far from pure. It's not the lack of sin that makes the best of us, it's that the best of us feel the weight of our deeds, and do not succumb—to the weight, to temptation.

And I know something you don't know—a secret. The hows and whys don't matter—that's an understanding for another day. But know this…

When you are at your lowest. When hope has faded and you're all alone—in the world, inside your head. When the odds are stacked and despair has taken hold. Remember your fire. It's always there. Once sparked, once the anger—once fear—has lit the fuse, the flame will remain, always—a beacon signaling to eternity that you are here and you will stand, no matter the obstacle. And, in the end, if you so choose, it won't be whispers and shadows that save you—that corruption seeks only to abuse. No—

It will be your first loud words, and your enemies' last. 

Don't question the moment. This is my only, best advice. Take hold. Speak clearly. The echoes followed by silence will tell the tale, and the Last Word will be ever yours.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

VI: A Gift and a Touch of Gray

The gun came to you? How does it feel in your grip? Few can light its fire, but any reborn of the Light can call its name. That's a secret I'm bound to hold. Just know you've earned it, and you've earned it true. The cannon you hold is yours, but it is no replica—it is a gift from a friend. 

I've hunted agents of the Darkness for longer than I care to recount. From childhood to now—not constant, not always, but anymore it's what defines me. My drive has long been clear—seek the shadow and your future is forfeit, seek the dark and I will end you. It's not personal—not anymore, though it surely started that way and stayed as such until one day on a lonely ridge. By now you've heard the story—the ballad of Jaren Ward and his Last Word, of Dredgen Yor and Palamon—Durga, Velor, North Channel, of Thalor and Pahanin, of our hunt and Jaren's death, of Dwindler's Ridge and my final showdown with the man who would be a monster. It's a long tale, and nothing I'm interested in revisiting. Not anymore. Them chapters are old. We're writing a new one—you and I—a final act for me, an unexpected beginning for you.

My life has always been about absolutes. There is Light and there is dark, and I made my purpose to defend against the whispered corruption of the shadow's calling. I've seen no middle ground, though maybe I've always known it exists. I've also seen many "heroes" tempt that sinister fate and the dire consequences born of their ignorance, pride, selfishness. I've put many down. More than anyone knows. More than I'll ever confess. Seeing you. Watching you. I don't feel I was wrong in my actions. But I now know I was wrong in my core assumption—my core belief.

To me, there was only ever white and black—good and evil. In you, I see blinding Light. I see a hero among heroes. I see the hope you inspire shining through. 

But I also see, for the first time—maybe, just maybe—a little bit of gray.

And with it, an end to last rites and final words.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

Just Another Day at the Tower

The arched eyebrow spoke volumes.

Eva Levante grinned, threatening to break through her deadpan. "The request was simple enough: a shader to commemorate the end of the SIVA incident. Zavala's color suggestion, though…"

Her companion held up the cloth, a ghastly combination of fluorescent yellow and blood-red that would have hurt the eyes even if it wasn't laid against a particularly nauseating set of stripes. Tess sighed. "He can make the Hive quake in fear, but that man shouldn't be let within 10 meters of a designer's table."

The two women were still laughing when a shudder rocked the Tower. They turned as one in the direction of the far-off sound that followed—a roaring noise neither of them had heard before.

The PA blared in the small utility room they'd claimed as a lounge. "Evacuation order 77 is in effect. This is not a drill. All civilians report to designated evacuation areas immediately."

Tess was at the door, palming it open when another explosion—much closer—shook them where they stood. Smoke and screams floated down the hallway.

Eva's memories of what followed were disjointed. She was running with Tess, gasping for breath. She remembered murmuring the names of her cousins, worrying about them down in the City. She was in a large crowd now, Tess was falling behind as Eva was crushed forward.

Another explosion, and a fire door slammed shut. Tess was gone, and Eva found herself with about 30 people in a small cargo bay between Tower North and the Hall of Guardians. A man was trying the far door, shouting that it was sealed.

Then the roof came down as a large sphere crashed to the decks. Cabal clambered from the pod, struggling against their bulky armor as they began to fire at the civilians.

That's when a dazzling blast of energy took them from behind. The shouting was enough for ten men, but when Eva could see again, only one massive Guardian was there, ending a Cabal soldier with a blade as long as she was tall.

The helmeted face of Lord Shaxx turned this way and that, taking in the room. Two quick strides brought him to her side, and with a surprising gentleness, he helped Eva to her feet.

"Madam." He intoned, and she could feel the bass of his voice in her chest. "I need your help."

At his insistence, she took charge of the civilians as he took point for their little group. With the confidence and looming presence of the Crucible master at her back, it was effortless to keep the others quiet and focused. When they reached an evac site, a trio of anxious-looking Hawk pilots waited with their craft.

As the last of the group climbed aboard, Shaxx laid a heavy hand on her shoulder. He towered over her as he said, simply, "Comrade." And then he was gone, back toward the fighting, his massive sword slung over his shoulder. Eva's last view of the Tower as her Hawk pulled away was ruin and flame.

<|endoftext|>

Loss of Light

"Valentina! And her son, Luis! Peregrine district! Apartment Block 10, fourth floor! It's the one…" An explosion nearby cut her off, but she shouted into the comms unit all the louder. "It's the one with the green awning! Please!"

The voice of the militiawoman on the other end of the line was emotional. "I'll send a unit! But ma'am, the fighting all across the district is—"

"Did I not give you my Tower clearance code?" Eva's own voice scared her. A whip-crack of anger.

A pause on the other end. "Yes ma'am. I'll go myself! Tozzi out."

Eva slumped back against the wall of the—she raised her head to look around—must have been a bakery at one point. Now the little café tables were barricading the doors and the counter's glass case had been smashed into a far wall with the display racks.

The militia Exo she'd borrowed the comms unit from snapped off another few shots over the half-wall that remained on the shop's exterior. They looked back in her direction, anxious. "Can you fire a weapon?"

Her helpless look must have been an answer, because they reached out for the comms unit. She slid it across the floor, and they quickly punched in a sequence of codes. Another blast nearby caused the other civilians in the room to whimper and moan with fear.

The Exo barked into the unit. "We need Guardian support, corner of the 1400 block Anchor District! I have a large number of civilians here, and our position is being overwhelmed!" They punctuated their transmission by leaning out and firing off another half dozen shots. The Cabal roared back in animal fury.

It wasn't more than two minutes before Eva heard it: the distinctive sound of a Sparrow, running full-out. She dared to gather herself into a half crouch and peer out of the building. She was watching just in time to see a pair of them, a Hunter and a Warlock, descend on the invaders like vengeful angels. These two were professionals, she could tell—no swagger to them. They were efficient and deadly, and the soldiers began to fall back.

Something happened. Eva couldn't see what it was, but both of the Guardians reeled. The Warlock dropped to one knee, like his strings had been cut. The Hunter shook her head and raised a hand in the air, a distinctive signal, calling for the Light… but nothing happened.

The Cabal, like they'd been waiting for this moment, struck hard. The Hunter was bowled over by a charging Centurion and crushed underfoot. The Warlock didn't seem to ever really recover, and he fell to the ground, riddled by the weapon fire of a dozen soldiers.

The Exo was standing fully upright now, shocked, and even as Eva opened her mouth to tell them to get down, they fell—a sniper's target.

One of the men retched in the corner, horrified. Eva gave herself no time to think. She snatched the comm unit from the ground and pushed past the civilians to a far window. She used the reinforced case to smash out the glass and began hoisting children through once the largest shards were cleared of the frame. She was the last out of the building, and a few stray bullets plucked at the wall near her as she made her escape.

They didn't stop running until they were sure no one was following. She had no idea which district they were in, no clue even what the building used to be. Much of the orderly streets and well-tended boulevards she knew had become a maze of debris—the last safe City, a maze of collapsed and ruined structures.

The children were huddled up in a great pile as the older folk talked quietly among themselves. Everyone was crying, on and off, but they tried desperately to keep it quiet. 

A high-pitched chirp across the comm unit startled Eva, and she slammed her head back against the wall behind her. She hadn't even realized she still had it. She reached down and keyed the pad.

A hushed voice said "Ma'am?"

Her own voice low and shockingly gruff, she answered, "This is Eva Levante. Is this Tozzi?"

A pause. "Tozzi's dead. She wanted me to make sure someone got back to you, though." Another long pause. Eva fought the urge to scream. "I'm sorry, Mrs. Levante. Block 10 is just gone. I think some of the automated defenses managed to come online early in the fighting and one of their command ships must have crashed…"

Eva didn't hear the rest of the words.

<|endoftext|>

Hiding at Home

Eva checked the time on the small comms unit she clutched to her chest. It seemed impossible, but it had been under two hours since she'd been sitting and laughing with Tess. Time had stretched for her, like the taffy candies some of the vendors sold during the Dawning festival. She would have sworn it was days ago. Longer than that, when she'd been sitting in her cousin's flat, hugging Valentina. Saying goodbye to Luis…

"Eva, we don't owe them anything." A gruff cough, one of the other civilians. Everyone's voice was a grinding imitation of itself; ash filled the air, and no one could clear their throat.

Eva clasped a rag to her mouth as she answered, croaking. "How dare you?" Her voice rose with her anger. "Your whole life they've kept you safe, and now you want to just abandon them?"

The subject of their dispute lay collapsed on the floor of the warehouse. A quartet of Guardians, all of them wounded and bleeding from within their flamboyant armor. Even as she weighed the future of their little band, she couldn't help but appreciate their fashion sense. The Hunter, of course, had put in the most effort.

The man arguing with her was paunchy and fashion-illiterate, wearing a bland functionary uniform: part of the Consensus staff. He scowled at her and grated out, "We can barely move the lot of us around, let alone all of us and a bunch of wounded, powerless Guardians. Why should we risk our—"

"You don't think they've risked their lives a hundred times over for you?" She pulled the rag away from her face and coughed a mass of phlegm and ash to the side. Her mother would have died all over again of shock. "We have to keep moving, we have to keep them with us, and we have to hold out. Whatever this is, it's temporary."

He grimaced, but she pressed on. "When they regain the Light they'll…"

Her diatribe was cut short by a blast of static on the comm unit, so loud she dropped it on the floor. The reinforced case took the blow, and so everyone around clearly heard the deep voice of Commander Zavala when he began to speak. "Citizens of the Last City. Hear my words."

Like a people dying of thirst, the civilians moved in to circle the comm unit. Zavala had been a pillar, a beacon of hope all their lives. Surely he would…

"We are abandoning the City. We have evacuated everyone we could, but the Cabal now hunt Guardians in the streets. If you are able, you should make for the wilds." Eva felt as if she'd been physically struck.

"The Cabal have affixed a device to the Traveler and severed our connection to the Light. We cannot hold the City, and we cannot protect you." There was a long pause, as if he was weighing his words carefully. When he spoke again, Zavala sounded very, very tired.

"We are setting a rally point elsewhere in the system—watch for a broadcast. We will return to the City someday, but… I do not know when." Another pause. "Be safe. Be brave." And he was gone.

To their credit, the group did not yell or shout. Even though it had only been a matter of hours, they were all alive because they'd learned not to give away their position. They did cry, though. Tears streaked trails down faces covered in ash; those faces looked from one to another as they sought to understand, to comprehend.

Eva did not cry. As she stared at the comms unit, all she could think about were Zavala's shoulders. She'd often joked with him about the size of the pauldrons on his armor, that massive protective plate on his left shoulder. And now… for some reason, she thought she understood. The weight on his shoulders…

Eva stood, and all eyes turned to her. She flinched a little. Then, choosing her words carefully: "Most of them are leaving. So we have to help them." She gestured at the Guardians. "If we can keep them alive, they can protect us, keep us safe." She looked around the group, found people nodding.

"Where do we go?" one woman asked.

Eva looked back down at the comms unit. "The Cabal will have heard that. They'll be watching the walls, expecting us to try to leave." She looked up, out at the room. "So we stay here. We make for the edge of the City and try to find somewhere the Cabal won't expect us to be."

The seamstress reached down and pulled up the comms unit, slinging it over her shoulder. "Everybody up. It's a long way to Twilight Gap."

<|endoftext|>

The New Normal

Just getting to the outskirts of the City was an ordeal. Every day, they saw the Cabal's control tightening. Civilian groups or the odd Guardian tried make a break for it only to be brought down by a swarm of ships hungry for a kill. The streets were no safer, with patrols moving in tandem and tanks rumbling through district centers.

Years of supporting the Guardians, of listening to their idle chatter, had filled Eva's head with details about these horrific invaders. She realized they were doing rigid block-by-block sweeps, unimaginative and plodding. Just as described at the Tower.

Their group hid and observed and moved only when the Cabal did. In that careful manner, they arrived at the far reaches of the City—parts long abandoned, where Humanity was just a shadow cast upon the walls.

Eva found herself in consultation every day, organizing foraging patrols back toward the center. Evenings were spent suggesting strategies for the upcoming days.

And to her great satisfaction, she spent nights sitting with a needle and thread, trying to make sure the survivors would stay warm on the move.

As the three Guardians recovered (they lost the Titan on the way to the Gap), they started offering more guidance. At their suggestion, the survivors never stayed in the same place more than a day or two. They posted lookouts every night and turned on the comms unit only every other day to listen for broadcasts. For chance transmissions. For hope.

Eva was there in the room when the Guardians heard Zavala's voice—his short, terse statement played over and over. "If there is any Light left in the system… we rally on Titan."

She shut the door so the other civilians wouldn't hear and listened as they had it out. The other Warlock, Tam, identified herself as Trinh's sister. They were adamant that they try—somehow—to get offworld and head for Titan. The Hunter, Ramos, was just as adamant they stay.

Their discussion wound down and came to a slow stop with all three Guardians looking at her. She held up her hands and said, "I trust you all to do the right thing." They stayed. And quickly became integral to the success of their… operation.

What had begun as simple survival became an organized effort to evacuate civilians from the Last City. Foraging parties inevitably came back with more people than they left. Scouting parties probed the edges of the City and found avenues of escape, places where the Cabal were lax in their patrols.

Eva found that the same skills she'd used to plan holidays at the Tower were invaluable in organizing this underground movement. She cobbled together boards from old classrooms to create a schedule and wrote on the backs of old forms and newsletters to make "delivery packages" of civilians and the occasional Lightless Guardian.

Day in, day out, this became her quiet routine. She faded into the background of the Underground: plan, move, sew, repeat. Even when contact was finally made with the Farm and getting survivors to the EDZ became the goal, Eva was always there making sure the trains ran on time.

After some thought, she asked that her role not be spread around. She got word to people like Tess that she was alive, and that was enough for her. She had the chance to get out of the City dozens of times.

But every time she thought she'd take that exit, go with that convoy, she stopped herself. Settled back. Did the work.

That was how the months of the Red War passed for Eva Levante.

<|endoftext|>

The Good Fight

"Abuela? Ma'am?"

It was quiet, almost a whisper, but enough to wake Eva. For a spinning, disorienting moment, she thought she was sitting in her living room back in Peregrine district. Her favorite afghan over the end of the couch and Carlos standing over her… but that wasn't Carlos.

The concerned face of the Hunter, Ramos, looked down at her. More than a few of the Guardians that went through the Underground had taken to calling her grandmother, but Ramos had stuck with the group through all the long months of the war.

He was very protective, sometimes smothering, and she sighed as she rubbed at her eyes. "I'm up. I'm up. What time is it?" She sat up on the old couch she'd been sleeping on, wincing as she tried to sort the knots she'd developed sleeping on her side.

"Almost 0700?" His voice was low and a little sheepish.

She glared at him. "You were supposed to wake me an hour ago."

His grin was lopsided. "You needed the sleep."

She stood carefully and tottered on unsteady legs, turning her face away so he couldn't see her annoyance. "Are they waiting?"

"They've only just arrived. One of the reasons I waited. They're not expecting you for another 10 minutes." Trying to justify himself.

Eva sighed again. "Thank you, Ramos. You're right; I did need the sleep. I was up again too late last night. Go tell them I'll be right down."

"Yes ma'am." He sounded happier, and his footfalls as he left the room were light, confident.

Eva stepped into the bathroom off the main living quarters of this second-floor flat. Her morning routine sorted, she poured some water out of one of the ration canisters into the stoppered-up sink so she could wash, try to feel a little less like she'd slept on a half-rotten couch in an abandoned building.

Water dripping down her nose, she reached blindly for one of the pieces of scrap cloth they used for towels and dried her face. When her eyes cleared, she found herself looking at a stranger.

Eva had always been on the thin side. She could still remember her mother chiding her, telling her to eat and clean her plate. Now the woman staring back at her was positively gaunt. Bags under her eyes, hair chopped brutally short, and her clothes! The clothes she'd been wearing the day of the attack hadn't lasted two weeks, never intended for living rough. The homespun outfit she'd stitched for herself would never have passed muster back at the Tower, but… out here they had to do. At least she'd been able to salvage her trademark shawl. Something to remind her of better days…

As she drifted into the living room, Eva reflected that better days, of course, were why the group was gathered downstairs. All of the Underground cell leaders gathered in one place for an important—perhaps final—conversation.

For the Underground, the Red War was a stunning victory. They'd won. The only civilians and Guardians left in the City were those unwilling or unable to go. Eva frowned, saddened.

Every few weeks they heard stories of a group of Guardians overrun from a supposedly secure bunker by a Legion assault. The loss of civilian life had been staggering, both in the initial assault and the intervening months.

As she looked down into the street through a slit around the boarded-up window, she had to admit to a feeling of… satisfaction. Now all that was left was for the Underground itself to pull out, make for the Farm and the safety-in-numbers of Hawthorne's group. Eva raised her eyes from the empty streets to the distant sight of the Tower, twisted and ruined.

She would stay, she had decided. Guardians like Ramos could check on her from time to time, but someone needed to stay behind and keep the lights on. There could be refugees still alive out there. Still hoping for a way… out.

She turned away from the window to head downstairs when the explosion ripped through the street in front of the apartment, and Eva's world turned white.

<|endoftext|>

Last Day

Eva, for the second time in as many minutes, shook her head and tried to understand where she was. There had been no warning. She'd heard a few seconds of a whining engine overhead, and then a massive explosion ripped through the street in front of the Underground apartment.

The blast had thrown her to the ground like a doll. Everything hurt, and from somewhere close by she could hear the guttural shouting of Cabal soldiers. The distinctive sound of Guardian weapon fire was answering. Someone was screaming.

Without thinking, she was on her feet, lurching toward the far corner where her shotgun lay on a side table. Three steps, four, weapon in hand and checked. Just in time as the apartment door flew open and a pair of Psions stepped through, weapons ready.

Eva Levante, seamstress of the Tower, would have been taken aback. The gaunt woman she'd just seen in the mirror had spent months dry firing the weapon. Endless drills had trained her for action and her first shot took the one on the right in the chest and blew him out of the room. It had not prepared her for the kickback, however, and she felt something crack in her arm as the weapon bucked against her.

That flinch saved her life as she unwittingly pivoted to the side, narrowly avoiding shots from the other Cabal creature. Roaring, she raised the weapon against and her answering blast threw him against the far wall.

Breathing heavily, she reloaded the weapon with one hand and waited, listening. No more outside that she could hear. Fighting was fierce downstairs. They needed her. She stepped to the door, weapon outstretched…

The sound of the wardog bursting through the apartment window was like another explosion. Eva whirled around as the scaly beast scuttled to the side, and another pair threw themselves from the hovering troop transport into the small living space. They landed with surprising grace, and three sets of hungry eyes stared at the seamstress. Drool smeared the floor as three sets of fanged mouths worked, eagerly.

Eva fired.

The beasts charged.

<|endoftext|>

Caretaker

Eva Levante stood leaning against the ivy-covered outer wall of the barn, gazing down into the football field at the Farm. The old nets were slack, now. Needed to be rehung. No one came by who cared enough to restring them, and the Farm's current inhabitants were not the sporty type.

Beyond the field were the rolling hills of the European Dead Zone, and on the horizon the twisted, ruined spur that was the Shard of the Traveler. Her first days back on her feet, recovering from the attack at the apartment, she'd stared in wonder at that view. 

Now she watched the clouds idly roil and collect around the Shard, bored. Eva smiled, and shifted her weight off the wall and onto the carved cane that kept her upright. To think after everything that had happened, she could be bored.

Her first days at the Farm had been a whirlwind of medical treatments, rushed through by attendants already on their way out as she was coming in. It had been the final days of the Red War, a major operation planned to retake the City.

One old woman coming in from the Underground was a low priority, and in the commotion even the old friends she'd hoped to see had missed her.

Now, she was alone. Or, mostly alone. She turned her head to see the Cryptarch, Tyra Karn, chattering away with Farm's postal frame. With primary operations returned to the City, Darbi had become Tyra's unofficial research assistant. Together they continued to study and examine Humanity's history through the lens of the Dead Zone, a sideline from the turmoil at the Tower Tyra was apparently only too happy to claim.

The scout, Devrim, came by every once in a while for a chat as well. When he was feeling cheeky, he referring to their little group as the "old hands club," usually smirking over the top of a cup of tea.

Both still had official jobs to do, of course, and they took their roles very seriously. 

Eva was at the Farm very unofficially. Her role at the Tower had never been one vital to operations, of course… but no one had rushed to ask her back to the market, either. Tess and Banshee had reached out once in a while, and she'd given advice on how to set up their new space.

But Eva was here at the Farm for the lost. 

They trailed into the place in ones and twos. They all shared something in common: the Shard hadn't connected with them. They came to sit and stare at it, off in the distance. To talk about how hard the Red War had been, as unpowered Guardians—some forced by circumstance to literally sit on the sidelines.

When the Light had returned, some of them reported that it felt different. It sat under the skin like a suit that didn't quite fit anymore.

A diminutive Exo woman was one of the pilgrims Eva remembered most clearly. She hadn't even known they made Exos that short. The woman shifted and twitched as she talked, unable to calm herself. 

At the mention of the Light fitting differently, a statement she'd heard a lot of Guardians make, Eva asked the same question she always did. "So does that mean the Light is different now? Or are you?"

The Exo stopped and narrowed her eyes, thinking. She was stock still for the first time since arriving at the Farm. 

That was usually how it went. Sometimes asking the question was all it took to get them sorted out. Others took a lot longer, sometimes spending weeks at a time at the Farm just doing as Eva was: staring up at the Shard.

Some… some came to the Farm, found no answers, and left on foot walking toward that great landmark on the horizon. So far as Eva knew, none of them had ever come back through the Farm.

It was a strange life. Another strange time, another role she'd never asked for. But she found she was good at it.

And Eva Levante had no interest in returning to the City.

<|endoftext|>

Invisible Scars

The comms unit in her little room chirped loudly enough to wake Eva from a sound sleep. Eva had turned the little outbuilding into something of a homey space with use of fabrics and art scavenged from the Dead Zone, but as it often did when she woke suddenly these days, it took her a moment to remember where she was.

She groaned as she slid out of bed, using nearby furniture to steady herself. The damage the War Beasts had done had been extensive, and even now she could feel the tightness in her legs where the Bray tech had knit bone and sinew back together.

She slumped into the little chair in front of the comms unit. The light from the screen lit the room, which was otherwise almost completely dark. She blearily peered into the unit, as the image of Tess Everis resolved itself. It was daylight in the City, and Tess was impeccably dressed for work.

"Do you have any idea what time it is here?" Eva asked, allowing the annoyance to seep into her words.

"Yes. I do." Something in Tess's voice made Eva sit up and look closer. There was a tightness to Tess's face. She looked… frightened.

"Tess, what's going on? Are you all right?" Eva was wide awake now, and plucked at the edge of her teal robe to draw it around her. She was suddenly cold.

"I'm sorry, sweetheart. Just… wanted you to know right away. I bet Tyra's getting a call from Rahool right now." Tess looked down and away before looking up into the camera again. "Sweetie, Cayde's dead. Something happened out at the Reef yesterday. I don't know all the details, but everyone's talking about it."

Eva's mouth formed a thin, worried line. She'd never been overly fond of the Hunter Vanguard, but so many people looked up to him. Relied on him. And if something was powerful enough to kill Cayde-6… "The Legion?"

Tess shook her head. "Still quiet, as far as word around here goes." She gave a dim smile for the first time since Eva had picked up. "You know how reliable the rumor mill is, though. It could be anything."

Eva sat back in her chair, frowning. "I'm sorry, dear. I know you liked him." Tess shrugged, trying to play it off. "Don't give me that, we weren't swapping stories in the Market that long ago."

Tess stopped, and nodded sadly. "There's going to be a memorial service, I think. Will you come back for it?"

It was Eva's turn to look away from the screen. It was the first time someone had asked her to go back. And for a funeral, of all things. Eva was about to make an excuse when Tess continued, her smoky voice taking on a light tinge of humor.

"While you're here you can sort out the holiday programming for the frames."

Eva's eyes widened. "The frames are doing holidays without me?"

Tess's smile broke into a full grin. "We were just as surprised! Somehow all of the holiday gear got packed along with critical supplies in the transfer to the new Tower. And when your programs kicked in, they were able to find the tagged crates." Tess picked up her comms unit and angled the lens so that it would show the Dawning hat sitting on top of a mannequin in the corner of the room.

Eva shook her head, disbelieving. "They did the Dawning without me."

Tess's face came back into frame. "Over the summer, Ikora got someone to help her set up an event to commemorate the end of the War, too." 

Eva tried not to let her annoyance show on her face. "How was it?"

Tess shook her head from side to side, evaluating. "Oh… you know. OK." When she saw Eva's mouth tighten, Tess laughed. "It didn't have your touch, sweetie." She sighed. "Oh, it feels good to laugh. Come back to the Tower! Even if it's just to pay your respects. I haven't given you a hug in what feels like years."

In the darkness of her room, Eva turned to look out her window. On the horizon, the dim glow of the Shard was like an anchor, a symbol of the past.

Eva looked back toward her friend and smiled.

<|endoftext|>

You Can Never Go Home Again

Eva Levante pulled opened the door to her storage unit and gagged at the smell. She turned to the two frames who were accompanying her and pointed inside.

"Start by sanitizing the whole space. When it's clean, we'll start moving in the crates." The frames both nodded to her and beeped affirmation. They were already sweeping with abandon as they crossed the threshold. Eva stumped back several paces, supported by her cane, to avoid getting any dirt on her outfit.

Around her, the marketplace swirled with activity. Civilians on break ate at the lunch counter, shoppers browsed the stalls, frames cleaned and patrolled and delivered goods, and Guardians were everywhere—a riot of color and style as they flipped and floated and leapt around the space.

Eva scowled, frustrated with herself again for letting Tess and (to an extent) Amanda talk her into returning. None of this felt right, none of it felt… comfortable. And now this space they'd given her to store her wares had apparently last been opened and cleaned sometime before the Faction Wars.

She found a bench along one of the market's walkways and sank gratefully down, watching the crowd pass by. Fashion, as it always did in the City, had moved quickly since the day the Legion attacked. She was still catching up, still finding her footing. Rebreather masks in particular dotted the faces in the crowd, more stylish and ornamental than practical—a holdover from a necessity in the days rebuilding and restoring the City.

And the Guardians! Tess had spent much of their time together since her return filling her in on fashion trends among the Lightbearer set, and Eva was incredibly impressed. Tess, the foundries, even the Vanguard had outdone themselves. Armor designs and shader schemas had improved dramatically since her days at the old Tower.

"What am I even going to do here?" she muttered to herself. "What can I do that…" she trailed off, watching a Guardian walk by with what appeared to be a full crest rising above his helmet and a Warlock robe that flowed and rippled behind him in the breeze.

"That's it." Eva stood, heading for the door to tell the frames to stop cleaning, when someone stepped into her path. A Guardian in a leather trench coat, with a shiny black helm.

"Eva?" The voice was distorted. She could see her own face reflected in the helmet, confused.

The gloved hands came up and the headpiece came off to reveal the smiling face of Ramos. "Abuela! It's me!" He pulled her into an enormous hug as she smiled.

"You rascal. You never gave me the chance to thank you." She swatted him kindly on the shoulder as she pulled away. "Just save a woman's life and then ride off to retake the City, why don't you?"

Ramos laughed, happier than she'd ever seen him. The Light hung around him easily, and he turned to a pair of Guardians who were standing nearby, watching tentatively. "Team, this is Eva Levante! You remember my stories? This woman is a legend!"

He gestured at the two. "Eva, these two are shiny as Glimmer. Just became Guardians before the Legion attacked."

Eva nodded her head deeply to them. "Good to meet you both."

One raised a hand in an awkward greeting, while the other cocked their head. "What… do you do here?"

Eva sighed. "Oh, I'm not… I'm not actually."

Ramos laughed and said, "She's a phenomenal seamstress! A hero of the war! And before that, she was one of the pillars of life in the Tower. Remember the Dawning holiday you liked so much? She brought that to the Tower!"

The two turned back to her, impressed. "How did you get Zavala to agree to… to…"

Eva smiled. "To have fun?" She laughed at the responses she got from all three Guardians, and tapped her cane twice on the ground. "That's a very good story. If you have some time?"

Ramos laughed. "Absolutely! Come, let's get some food. And we can help these Kinderguardians learn a thing about what it means to be part of the Tower."

With help from her friend, Eva Levante walked easily across the market square of the Tower, bastion of the Last Safe City. Home.

<|endoftext|>

Tradition Is Bigger Than You

When Tess told me that the frames had organized the Dawning in the new Tower while I was all the way out at the Farm, I thought, how could they do it without me? Then I said, Eva, these traditions are bigger than you. They live in the hearts and minds of the people who have passed them on, generation after generation!

Now I am back in the Tower, helping to create the loveliest Dawning celebration yet. And I carry on a tradition I am sure to repeat every year: I ask Ikora to make the Dawning Crystal, and I ask until she does it.

I make an appointment to discuss the decorations, but I know she's always very busy with urgent Vanguard business. That is why, when I approach her alcove and hear low voices, I don't barge right in; I just peek a little bit.

Ikora is muttering—she sounds almost angry. "Dawning decorations! I've got no time for frivolous…"

A male voice says, "It is not 'frivolous.' People need this. I understand that it's hard for you because it's the first Dawning without Cay—"

"Stop talking, Ophiuchus. Right now." I do not see who Ikora is talking to or recognize this name, but Ikora's voice is sharp. "I have other concerns. What about the latest reports out of the Tangled Shore? I don't know what to make of them. And my Hidden have reported trouble brewing closer to home…" I notice her eyes drift across the main passageway, to a secluded nook with a partially closed gate.

"Yes, Ikora. But—"

"And there's never any word from Osiris. Not that I expect it, but…" She shakes her head.

"With respect, why not just message him?"

"Perhaps. I just don't have the time to…" She pauses. "Eva Levante!"

I make sure to tread loudly and rustle my sheaf of Dawning Crystal designs as I enter (why have her think I was eavesdropping?). Ikora watches me, her arms crossed. Her Ghost hovers by her ear, whirring with alertness.

"Happy Dawning, Ikora Rey!" I begin. She can tell by my big bright smile and the firm way I spread out the designs for her to pick from that it will go faster if she says yes. She respects our tradition, though; she says no twice, then she says fine, Eva, fine. She does not believe the crystal matters, though; she avoids my gaze, but her Ghost—I see his eye blink at me.

The design she promises to make is exquisite.

We agree to meet again when she finishes it. I join her in the Bazaar while running errands with my assistant Malia—so many last-minute tasks! When we march up, Ikora and her Ophiuchus are huddled together. She keeps shaking her head. But still she lifts her arms, and suddenly an enormous Dawning Crystal winks into being in the skies above the Tower, like a million diamonds suspended in air.

Malia gasps. She has never been so high in the Tower, nor seen the Dawning Crystal up close; only from the City far below. She drops all the packages she was carrying.

The Warlock Vanguard helps Malia pick them up, piling one parcel on top of another until she realizes Malia is still as stone, kneeling, watching her, watching her hands that had kindled light from air. The poor girl's scarred face is slick with tears, and she wipes them with her sleeve, but the tears will not stop. Malia's family escaped the City during the Red War, you see; though they survived and have a home again, there have never been many beautiful things in their lives.

Malia touches Ikora's arm and mouths a thank-you. Her cheeks flush red as a pincushion.

Then I kneel too (a bit slowly nowadays) to take the packages from Ikora—all but one, bound in golden ribbon and embossed with an open eye encircled by a sun. I nod and press it into her hands. Then I hear that Ghost of Ikora's whisper, "I told you so," and Ikora reply, "So you did."

---

Traveler Donut Holes:
Mix Cabal Oil and Flash of Inspiration, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

Dawning Before the Dawning

Amanda once told me that her mother, Nora, came from desert people, in a place far, far from here. Nora had been on the road since she was a girl, sometimes with nothing more than an old scribbled map and that shotgun of hers. She didn't need much, but she did need people. Nora met Amanda's father in some half-abandoned village, and when she told him about the Last Safe City, well, he followed her. They had no family but themselves. They picked up fellow refugees on the way. Lost others.

Then they had their precious little girl. It must have been a slow, slow road—first with a little baby, then with a young child. But they believed. They had hope. They pushed on.

Amanda told me about one particular Dawning they had shared out in the wilds. They had fallen in with another family that had a child, Lucia, a bit older than little Amanda. They were agreeable travel companions. They found themselves in the thick of the forest, with the wind wailing, a storm coming down, branches flying… and realized they had to stay put.

So, they find the wreckage of a dropship, lean up a wing and crumpled siding, and squeeze all the grown-ups and the two little ones into the dry space under the rusted hull.

Then Amanda's mother says, "We'll be here a while. Might as well do something to keep our spirits up."

She sends the adults out foraging for something to eat, something to drink, and something to keep dry. Amanda's father comes back with long-leaved plants to weave into mats. Their companions return with full water flasks, some prickly fruit, and a dozen or so wild vegetables like cucumbers. With dried fish from their packs, it is quite the feast.

As the adults are working, Lucia is curling the rinds from the fruit into little flowers, but little Amanda is kicking her legs, restless. "Make yourself useful; make some decorations," Amanda's mother urges her. She hands Amanda wires and nuts and bolts and a circuit board full of little lights.

Lucia comes jumping, an old battery in her hand. Together the girls make miniature garlands of tiny bulbs. And Lucia shows Amanda how to touch the wires to the battery to make them light up. Bright little lights in the vast dark forest.

Amanda told me about the fruit, with soft white flesh and a sour taste. She told me about how they sang made-up songs together with no words, just humming and tapping out a beat on the metal walls of their shelter.

She doesn't know what the fruit was. Maybe it does not exist anymore. The other family? They got separated from Amanda's people. Later on, Amanda's parents… gone, like so many others on the road to the Last Safe City.

But Amanda Holliday still makes the lights, you know. Uses spare odds and ends to decorate her workshop. She does it every Dawning.

---

Chocolate Ship Cookies:
Mix Cabal Oil and Null Taste, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

It's the Feeling That Counts

Some residents of the Tower have been around very long indeed. The Guardians, the Exos, the old Iron Lord—they have seen Dawning after Dawning. Even before the Tower began observing the holiday as we now know it, there were those who would always celebrate with similar ceremonies of light and hope. Sometimes these memories blend together. But the feeling… the feeling remains.

This Dawning season—last week? the week before? I can't even remember, haha!—one of my suppliers tells me they had two of my boxes delivered to the Gunsmith by mistake. So, I go to see Banshee-44 to sort it all out.

The Exo has no recollection of a delivery. But he recognizes me, and I notice his eyes glow a teensy bit brighter. "Must be about the Dawning," he mumbles, and he turns on his heel and heads straight to some shelves at the back. He returns with two big boxes.

"These them?" he asks.

We open the first one up. Inside, we find a very, very old box of chocolates. Many different portable kits for cleaning weapons. A copy of "Hunter of the Heart" (I know this novel, but it is not for everyone). A necklace with a bullet pendant, tucked with care into a little box. Stacks and stacks of Dawning greeting cards.

I shake my head gently. "Those are presents people have given YOU for the Dawning, Banshee!"

The Gunsmith blinks a couple of times. Then, he closes the carton—I worry he should have thrown away the chocolates, but maybe next year—and then turns to the other one on the counter. He lifts the cover.

It is full of Dawning gifts, wrapped in brightly colored paper and tied with glittery ribbon. Some are in tiny boxes, but some are guns, of course. They are all meticulously labeled.

"I think these are the presents you are giving out to friends this year, no?" I ask with a wink.

Banshee gives one brisk nod as he turns over the labels, reading them. I observe that some have detailed instructions. The Exo shrugs.

"Got in the habit of writing everything down. Sometimes I… I don't always remember." He waves the thought away. "Right."

"I still need my supplies? The boxes I came to get?" I nudge him.

He tilts his head a moment and finally raises a finger. "Oh. I know where they are."

But before he takes away his boxes, I tap the covers. "You should label them. 'Old Dawning Gifts.' 'New Dawning Gifts—To Be Delivered.'" He nods at me and scribbles on the lids.

"I never forget my friends for the Dawning," he makes sure to tell me as he hands me my packages.

"I'm very glad. Happy Dawning, Banshee!" I reply, squeezing his arm.

I do hope he remembers to get rid of those chocolates.

---

Telemetry Tapioca:
Mix Vex Milk and Bullet Spray, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

Our Choices Define Us

Sometimes, when I face something frightening, I think of the strongest people I know and draw strength from them. Suraya Hawthorne is one of those people. I know her brusque attitude can be off-putting, and that's intentional on her part. But once you get past that, there is so much to learn.

She was orphaned as a young girl, and Devrim and Marc took her in. Honestly, I think having these two as role models is part of why she's as strong as she is. They raised her to be sure of herself and to always do what she thought was right… even though that ultimately led to her having to leave the City.

As Suraya tells it, she came home one day to find Marc and Devrim sitting at the kitchen table, as though expecting her. They had her sit down, then asked if there was anything she wanted to tell them.

She shook her head. "Nope."

Marc asked her to try again, but she was silent, so he told her that Executor Hideo had stopped by their home. She asked how he was.

"You know how he is," Devrim said. "Tell us what happened."

"His face got in the way."

Marc took a deep breath and said Hideo claimed to have caught her stealing supplies that morning, and did she have anything to say about that? She did not.

He reminded her that stealing supplies and breaking a faction leader's nose were both good ways to get kicked out of the City, and Suraya could keep quiet no longer. She almost shouted her explanation: The factions didn't care about the people who needed food and supplies—the people who could not pledge to a faction because they were too busy struggling to survive. She wanted to help them, so she would sometimes steal supplies from New Monarchy.

Devrim asked, "What about Hideo?"

Suraya rolled her eyes and groaned, explained that when Hideo had found her, he'd said all manner of nasty, evil things to her: She was worthless, she was nothing, things like that.

Devrim agreed Hideo was… well, I won't repeat it, but suffice to say it means "an unpleasant person." He held a lot of influence, though, and he was insisting Suraya be punished. Harshly. For Suraya's part, this seemed to crystallize something. She tells me that's the first time she knew she wanted to leave the City—that perhaps this had been part of why she'd punched Hideo. She told her guardians and they couldn't believe it.

They were quiet for a bit. Then Devrim broke the silence. "Well, let's get packed."

"No," she said. "Absolutely not." She was not about to let her decisions hurt these men who had taken her in and cared for her. They'd done nothing wrong.

Oh, they fought her. As she tells it, they argued a long time, until finally, she shrugged and said, "If you try to come with me, I'll run away."

She suspected they knew there was no bluff to call, as they spoke now in tired, worried voices, making their case one last time. Suraya was adamant. "I won't let you suffer for my choices." What could they do?

She asked when she had to leave. Marc said he could hold off Hideo for a day or two so they could all make a plan. His voice became stern again, and he said, "You're going somewhere close enough that we can come and check on you as often as we like. At least for a while. That is nonnegotiable."

He had no negotiating power, of course. But Suraya had agreed. She stayed very near the City for over a year before saying proper goodbyes and heading out further into the world. 

Suraya Hawthorne is, in my mind, the definition of doing what you think is right regardless of the consequences. She knew it was right to help struggling families, she knew it was right to not put Devrim and Marc in harm's way, and she knew it was right to give them some peace of mind by staying close. That is the kind of true courage I have always admired.

---

Eliksni Birdseed:
Mix Ether Cane and Personal Touch, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

Extended Family

Oh, Devrim. Who can meet Devrim and say they don't like him? He looks out for others and helps anyone who asks. I saw him many times after I made my way back to the Farm. He'd come by from time to time, to check in on everyone and make sure everything was going all right. We even sat down to tea a few times. Such a kind, sincere soul. We need more of those, you know.

We talked many times about the war, and he tried so hard to convince me to arm myself. "You've seen what's out there," he would say, as though I might have forgotten.

We argued about it time and time again. I had jobs that didn't require fighting, I would explain, and that was intentional. My strongest contributions lay elsewhere, and I meant to keep my focus there.

I remember one conversation in particular where Devrim was absolutely adamant. "Eva!" he finally said, louder than I think he meant to. His eyes were urgent, almost angry, as they locked on mine. "This isn't some 'what if' situation. You've already had to defend yourself. It stands to reason you'll have to again. The Cabal aren't backing down, and they're not the only threat. To know all that and still not even try to protect yourself… it's irresponsible."

Yes, I had defended myself. And I had hated everything about it.

"Devrim." I kept my voice soft, but my words clear. "The fighting, the shooting, the mayhem—that's not what I want to be part of. I've seen enough. If it comes for me again—and I agree, it could—then so be it. I want to be part of the healing. I want to be part of what builds us back up. Don't we need that?"

Poor Devrim finally stopped trying to convince me. He never stopped checking in, though. Old habits, as they say.

When I finally came back to the Tower, though, what do you think was waiting for me? The Dawning festival was just beginning, and the Postmaster had a package for me. Inside, a beautiful sidearm—ornate design, antique coloring—and a note. From Devrim, of course.

At first I was indignant—after all our conversations! I had half a mind to simply throw this gun away. Instead, I read the note.

"Eva, my friend!

I was sorry to hear you'd left the Farm after all, but very glad to know you'll be among dear friends. In that spirit, and in the spirit of the Dawning, I wanted to offer you this gift. This has been passed down through my family for generations. It's a Kay family heirloom—and before you throw it away, you should know that it doesn't fire. I thought this might be a nice compromise, and I hope you'll accept it.

I hope the Tower treats you well, old friend.

—Devrim"

I read the note a few more times, then folded it and put it in my pocket.

I looked down once more at this beautiful heirloom—a symbol of friendship, of family—and reflected on the fact that somehow, despite everything, I'd managed to rediscover both.

---

Gentleman's Shortbread:
Mix Ether Cane and Perfect Taste, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

The Dawning on the Stormy Seas

Every Dawning, I receive many greeting cards from customers. The ones I treasure the most contain stories about how people all across our solar system observe the holiday. One of my favorite letters came from someone who was a customer of mine but once: Lady Sloane, Stoneborn out on Titan, one of Saturn's moons.

"Dear Eva,

"Happy Dawning.

"First, thanks for the delivery; all the requisitions arrived in perfect condition, and you did a great job packaging up the chicken (more on that later). We tried decorating the railings outside our Command Center with the garlands, but the Fallen have been using the lights for target practice. I guess we'll be getting some more next year and prettying up the break room instead. A couple of the Dawning lanterns got whipped away in the wind, too—we're not known for our clement weather out here on the methane seas.

"Some Guardians who've been helping me out on Titan mentioned that you like to hear about Dawning traditions outside the City, so here's how we celebrate on this moon we call home.

"This year, I let the crew off duty early, 1600 hours, and took a whole hour off myself so we could have ourselves a little Dawning soirée in our Command Center.

"Siren's Watch has got quite a view of the waves and some floating platforms, so we pushed our break room tables together, end to end, and looked out at the horizon while we shared a communal feast. Seeing as the room is exposed to the elements (the glass view window broke long ago, but repairing it just hasn't been a priority), Del and Ari had to bundle up—and we had to weigh the tablecloth down with chunks of metal. I've had worse setups.

"Eva, it was the best meal I've had in ages. That chicken? Delicious. Every one of us got to try a piece. We cut our protein rations into fun shapes, and once we got your taffy warmed up enough to chew, it was heaven.

"We exchanged Dawning gifts as well. Somebody even cross-stitched me an 'inspirational quote' to hang in my quarters ('Where's my beacon?'; it's an in-joke). Decent tools, Heavy ammo, thick socks—those are the kinds of gifts that change hands out here. Maybe that doesn't impress people accustomed to the Dawning in the Tower, but those presents have worth to us.

"When we joined hands afterward, whether for warmth or just conviviality, we got to talking in a way we never really had before. I don't think I've ever voluntarily shared stories about myself in my life! We talked about who we were before the Red War, where we came from, and even where we might want to go in the future.

"It's not easy here on this storm-tossed moon—one jolt and you're tumbling off a platform into eternity. Between the Fallen and the Hive and the elements, we're always just struggling to stay alive. But as we sat there chatting, we FELT alive.

"I guess I wrote all this just to say thank you, Eva, for reminding us to take a moment to appreciate and rejoice, no matter what. I find that inspiring.

"Sincerely,
"Sloane"

I have never left Earth, and Titan sounds like a… very interesting place. But reading how this holiday has brought people together in such faraway places, I feel all my efforts have been worth it.

I hope to see Sloane again someday.

---

Alkane Dragée Cookies:
Mix Chitin Powder and Bullet Spray, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

Celebrate Each Other

I had heard of the Exodus colony ships before. I didn't remember much about them—just one of those names from history lessons that sticks with you. To tell you the truth, I had forgotten about it until more recently, when some Guardians told me they found one of them crashed on Nessus—and explained what had happened to its Failsafes.

I understand they were originally one AI—the ship's navigational intelligence—but with time, they separated. It sounds to me like one of them is always happy, and the other is always sad. That's no way to live for either of them. These things must exist in balance. I know they're computers, but I worry for them.

One Guardian in particular spoke to me recently of the time he told the Failsafes about the Dawning festival. He had just turned some bounties in to them and mentioned that he was excited to get back to Earth to participate in the festivities. They stopped him and asked him to explain what that meant—they had never heard of the Dawning! He said something to the effect of, "It's a winter celebration that combines several old Earth traditions."

They responded—I will try to word this exactly as he did, since he prided himself on his imitation of them—they responded by the happy one saying, "According to my database, Earth's 'winter' occurs when one hemisphere is oriented away from the sun! Why do you celebrate being cold?" Then the sad one said, "I mean, I can't feel cold, but it sounds awful."

So this Guardian said something like, "It's more that we're celebrating each other," which I love, because that is how I've always thought of it as well. We're all here together, eating sweets and being with each other.

The Failsafes asked a few more questions and then the happy one said, "If we are celebrating each other, how can I participate in the Dawning? I am all alone. It is very depressing!" The sad one said, "I'm not gonna celebrate the Fallen."

My Guardian friend thought quickly and said, "You can wish every Guardian that comes out to Nessus a happy Dawning! Celebrate with us! We would love that."

That seemed to cheer both of them up a bit, so I'm glad he thought to say it. Apparently, they practiced wishing him a happy Dawning for the better part of an hour, so I expect they're quite good at it now. Go visit them if you have a chance. Being far from the City shouldn't stop anyone from having a pleasant Dawning.

---

Infinite Forest Cake:
Mix Vex Milk and Impossible Heat, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

A Cautionary Tale

"Eva Levante!" Ikora caught my wrist and leaned in to whisper. "I need to speak with you about Eris Morn."

Ah, I will never forget that day. Way back then, I was very busy getting the Vanguard and the other Tower vendors excited about the Dawning. In turn, many reached out to me about anything related to the holiday. Still, I was surprised that the Warlock Vanguard would seek me out—and to talk about Eris Morn, of all people!

I might have shuddered in spite of myself.

"I saw you chatting with her as you were getting the decorations set up…"

What I recalled was Eris talking at me about abysses while I was trying to hang lanterns, but I did not want to say that to Ikora.

She continued, "I am worried about her. She seems quite depressed."

I flicked my eyes up at Ikora and then looked away. To my credit, I did not snort.

"She's even more morose than usual, and the technicians in the Hall of Guardians are complaining. Eva, could you talk to her? Perhaps… get her to help you out? Surely you could use an extra set of hands."

A terrible idea, but again, I could not say so. Instead I suggested, "Perhaps she has a friend—well, maybe not a 'friend'—but somebody she likes to talk to, someone who she has something in common with…" I trailed off, remembering who we were speaking of.

But Ikora perked up. "There is someone she addresses voluntarily—a Gensym scribe named Asher Mir. He's also, well… He's an excellent scholar. I'll reach out to him, unless YOU know him, of course…"

"I don't!" I said brightly. "But I hope it goes well; I want everybody to have a happy Dawning. Now if you'll excuse me, I do have deliveries to make."

I wasn't yet familiar enough with Ikora to squeeze her arm in farewell, so I nodded and made my escape.

But when I crossed paths with her again later that day, what a look she gave me! "I talked to Asher, as you suggested," she muttered.

"Well?"

"He grumbled at first. He seemed unaware that the Dawning was taking place, in fact. But I explained, and when I told him it would be… very well regarded if he wrote her a Dawning greeting card or went to visit her, he said he could write a card. He also said he had a Dawning gift for her."

"Oh! How kind!"

"I'm not so sure," she sighed and produced a piece of parchment.

It was folded in four to form a greeting card. Nothing on the cover, but inside was written, "Eris, the Warlock Vanguard has approached me about 'cheering you up' for a holiday that is going on. I shall seize this serendipitous opportunity to send you the research notes you demanded of me on heretical practices among the Hive, however spurious the grounds for your request. Warmest wishes to you this Dawning! —Asher Mir"

"Did you dictate that last part to him, Ikora?"

She paused for a moment. "Yes."

I laughed. "Well, you had better take it to her. I wouldn't call Hive research a traditional Dawning present, but she did request it."

Ikora shook her head wearily, and we parted ways.

Later that same day, as I was about to head out on my last round of deliveries, Ikora approached me yet again.

She told me, "I went to see Eris. I don't know if she's any more cheerful, although she did say, 'Ah yes, I had been expecting these notes for some time now. Good.' She even wrote a Dawning message back to Asher."

Ikora handed me back the same piece of parchment that her scribe colleague had used, but it had been refolded. I read, "Asher: Take heed not to succumb to the whispers, as fools do. Warmest wishes to you this Dawning! —Eris Morn"

I shrugged.

The Warlock cleared her throat. "Eris also had a Dawning gift for me to pass on to Asher."

"At least she's making an effort."

"Well…" Ikora hauled me aside and took out a small, lumpy packet wrapped in cloth. She peeled back the layers of tissue with care. And there it was. The Dawning gift glowed with a sickly green luminescence.

"I can't give this to him!" Ikora hissed. "I can just..." She looked around for eavesdroppers. "...get rid of it, right?"

"This is beyond a question of Dawning etiquette," I whispered back.

She nodded, her face set. "Let us never speak of this again."

---

Radiolarian Pudding:
Mix Vex Milk and Electric Flavor, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

Say It with a Dawning Gift

It's not only my customers who keep me running about. People are always coming to me for advice. Sometimes it's "This shader or that?" and "Does this mark look OK on me?" Sometimes it's "Should I hold a Dawning party?" or "Why should I go to their Dawning party?" But sometimes the questions are even more complicated.

I was stealing a moment of quiet one afternoon to organize all the jumbled rolls of wrapping paper, when I heard a resonant voice calling to me. How I jumped!

It was… a certain well-known Titan—not Zavala, but I will not tell you who. Eva Levante does not tattle about sensitive matters.

He was carrying a formidable piece of weaponry, a complicated curve of many metal parts with a thick string connecting the ends. "It's a compound bow," he explained, following my stare. "For shooting arrows." I raised my eyebrows in puzzlement.

On that weapon, he had placed a large pouf of red velvet ribbon. A bow on a bow.

I could tell from the tilt of his helmet and his taut grip on the weapon that something was amiss.

I sighed. I saw this a few times every Dawning. I suspected he was smitten, and this would not be a short conversation.

"Warmest Dawning greetings to you, Torito!" (That is not his actual name, naturally; it is a made-up name.)

"Eva Levante. They say you should give a Dawning gift when you… have a special friend," he boomed, trying to whisper.

"Who is 'they'?" I laughed.

He ignored me. "I bought my friend this bow. Is it a good gift?"

"It all depends on your friend. What do they like? What ARE they like? Can you describe them?"

"She… likes to fight. She is regal. She is very…" The Titan paused. "Is a recurve bow more romantic than a compound bow?" (He managed to whisper this time.)

"Ahhh," I nodded knowingly. I wouldn't know the difference between those weapons, but I understood his problem.

"But maybe a book would be better?" he asked.

"Again, it depends which book you choose."

"I have read Ikora's 'On Circles: Revised Edition,' and it was very good."

"That is a terrible Dawning gift. Might I suggest literature?"

Torito tapped the horn on his helmet to reflect. "I did destroy a book of hers once. Should I replace it?"

"Maybe you should not remind her of a bad thing happening…"

He didn't reply to this, so I went on, "Perhaps this bow is already the right Dawning gift for your friend. Do you think she would use it?"

"Definitely."

"Well, then," I smiled, "you have your answer. Happy Dawning to you and your friend both!"

"And to you, Eva. I hope your Dawning is one to remember."

Then the Titan thanked me, hefted the bow, and strode off.

---

Vanilla Blades:
Mix Cabal Oil and Sharp Flavor, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

No Such Thing as Coincidence

I always seem to get a customer with many questions right as things get busiest, in the late afternoon. Today it was a woman. A beautiful, sturdy Guardian with dark, cropped hair and a diagonal stripe of white across each eye—very striking! She had a satchel slung over one shoulder and a stack of books and packages cradled in one arm. By this, I guessed she was a paying customer. She also had a cheeky curl to her lip and a hand on her hip, and she tap-tap-tapped her fingers as she waited. By this, I guessed she was a Hunter.

"Happy Dawning, Miss…?" I greeted her.

She launched right in. "Can you help me put together a really small, intimate Dawning celebration? Do you have, like, a kit or something?" she asked, peering back over her shoulder with impatience. "It's a surprise for… somebody who's used to the Dawning in the City, only now we're all the way over on Mars, so…"

"Ah! Well, the Dawning basics are decorations, shared food, and gifts. First: you have a choice of lanterns"—I pointed to the colorful spheres lining the shop—"and candles"—I produced a box of tea candles from under the counter and thumped it down in front of her—"and streamers."

"Candles and streamers are a fire hazard. I'll take candles and lanterns."

"Silver and yellow lanterns go well together…"

She squinted up at my display. "Purple."

"I'll give you purple, green, and silver. That's a pretty combination. The Dawning is about wonder and beauty, so you don't buy just one lantern." I stacked the accordioned lanterns on top of the candles.

She opened her mouth and then shut it again. I pulled out my biggest assortment of Dawning treats and placed it on the counter. "Sharing and generosity are the heart of the Dawning. This collection is the one you want"—here I paused—"if you want to impress someone you love."

She pursed her lips and pushed the beribboned package of sweets next to the candles and lanterns.

Smiling, I pulled over a rack of my finer garments. "Finally, the Dawning gift: the most important—"

"Oh, I've already got a good Dawning gift." She put her belongings on the counter to point out the necklace box on top. I also happened to scan the spines of the thick books, some with very long titles, all labeled, "Fu'an Library – REFERENCE – DO NOT REMOVE."

The Hunter noticed my frown and shoved the books into her satchel. "Here's what I picked. Think she'll like it?"

I didn't know who 'she' was. But I admired the necklace she was showing off: an elongated pendant with an emblem of a little bird, of exquisite workmanship.

She grinned, "That design is Golden Age, but the pendant also holds thirty-five petabytes of data!"

I returned her smile. I also convinced her to buy a sturdy book bag and purple wrapping paper.

"There! Your own personal Dawning in a bag!" I said, tucking away her Glimmer and handing over her purchases. "I hope your companion enjoys the surprise."

The Hunter bobbed her head in thanks and turned to go.

"Anastasia!"

Who did I see then but Commander Zavala, standing arms akimbo in the corridor as the press of the afternoon shopping crowd flowed around him.

"Zavala," muttered the Hunter. She pushed her shoulders back and thrust out her chin; she looked fierce as a falcon.

"Happy Dawning, Ana. I'm surprised to see you in the Tower."

"Yeah, well, I had errands…"

But I missed what else they said, because someone ran up with a package, asking, "Hey, did I hear that woman was headed back to Mars? This one's going there, too."

I ran my eyes down the packing list: candles, lanterns, candy assortment, wrapping paper, cloak… Ordered by a Camrin Dumuzi. I got a funny feeling, it was such a coincidence…

"I think this is meant to be a surprise. The package can wait for tomorrow's deliveries," I replied.

When I looked back, Zavala and the Hunter were deep in conversation, the Titan Vanguard wearing a half smile and the woman smirking. By this, I guessed that the Dawning spirit was uniting old friends.

And with that, I turned to my next customer.

---

Javelin Mooncake:
Mix Chitin Powder and Sharp Flavor, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

A Friendly Face

Have you ever met someone who immediately rubbed you the wrong way? They can appear very friendly—but it's always a particular type of friendly. The different varieties can be hard to recognize when you're young, but with time, you'll see them all. The rarest form is genuine kindness, though there is also "fair weather" friendly, "I want something" friendly, and "look how friendly I am" friendly. That last one is always hiding something, and they hope their performance covers it up.

This last group is also where we find that man who calls himself the Drifter. I do not like to speak ill of others, but him? Him I do not trust.

I don't really know what he does out beyond that gate, and I'm not sure I want to know. I've spoken to him only a couple of times. He always seems like he's in a rush.

The one conversation we've had beyond our introduction was very short, and he slinked away before I could get any answers. It was right before the start of the Dawning festival. I was getting my decorations set up as he walked up to my booth and asked, "Well, what's all this?"

"Surely you know of the Dawning?" I said—not in a rude way, but in a friendly way. "I know you're a snake" friendly.

"Oh, of course," he said. "I guess I'd forgotten it was gettin' to be that season. Time just goes right on by, don't it, sister? Right on by." He looked up at the decorations for a long time, hands on his hips and nodding approvingly.

"It certainly can," I said. "Actually, I wanted to ask—"

"You know," he said, "I don't know that I've been anywhere that actually celebrated the Dawning. Why don't you tell me a thing or two?"

I may not be centuries old, my friend, but I am no naïve child either. Old Eva knows a lie when she hears it. I spent a bit of time telling him about our festival anyway, explaining our traditions and the meanings behind them. He nodded along, seemingly very attentive. I tried to bring the conversation back to him.

"So, Drifter, where are you—"

"Well, best be on my way!" he said, pretending not to hear me as he backed up. "I've taken up enough of your time—who knows how much any of us has left." As he walked off, he tossed back, "Like the décor! Good colors!" then disappeared around a corner.

I've heard other people talk about this strange man. They mostly say the same things: very friendly, if a little mysterious. On the other hand, I've also heard some things I won't repeat—they're far too gruesome to be true, and I won't facilitate spreading false rumors. I'm sure his eating habits are no different from yours or mine.

Suffice to say, something is off about him. I'd recommend keeping an eye on him.

---

Dark Chocolate Motes:
Mix Taken Butter and Null Taste, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

A Tale Twice Told

What I have loved most since coming back to the Tower is reconnecting with everyone. I missed my friends while I was away, and I thought about them every day. Even when you're doing what you know is right, it can be hard not to wish for times past.

I've wanted so much to catch up on everything I missed, but these Guardians are so busy, always flitting in and out. You can barely get a word out of them most of the time. I feel like so much has happened, but I get only drips of information.

"Spider" is a name I hear over and over, but who is he? A common criminal? A deity? A friend? Some accounts paint him as all three. What is it about this Spider fellow that compels these Guardians so?

And do I have it right that he feeds on Ghosts? Ghosts! What an utterly despicable practice. Even the most detestable Ghost doesn't deserve that kind of treatment. (Yes, I am thinking of one in particular, but… I'm afraid old Eva will keep that secret to herself.)

From what I can put together, this Spider fellow had a group of Barons, I think. If that's correct, his relationship with them seemed… tenuous. I don't know what one gets up to on this Tangled Shore, but I think he had them all killed.

Before that, though, Spider's Barons broke into some kind of high-security prison out in space. They were looking for… something belonging to Spider. I don't know what it was. Maybe it was Ghosts or maybe it was weapons—although why he'd have someone look for those things in a prison, I don't know. While his Barons were in there, the prisoners started to fight them. That rascal Cayde-6 was also in the prison, on a mission that I don't think was related to Spider's mission. They ended up in the same fight, though, from what it sounds like. Then, while everyone was fighting, the Reef Queen's brother arrived!

When I first heard this story, at this point I thought to myself, "Oh, good! Finally someone on our side. The Awoken Prince will help get things in order." Now, keep in mind that I had always heard he was… a bit stiff. But also that he was willing to help when it came down to it. That was before his sister, though. Loss can do terrible, ugly things to us.

This leads me to the only detail I know with absolute certainty: Uldren Sov killed Cayde-6.
 
I don't know why, but I suspect it was in part because the Prince succumbed to the pain in his heart and lost the ability to see things as they are. Anyway, once Spider's Barons left the prison, they ran all over the Reef. I guess they had found what Spider was looking for, but decided to keep those things for themselves. This Spider sent people after the Barons, and I don't think any of the Barons survived.

While all this was going on, someone killed Uldren. I assume it was revenge for Cayde, but I can't get anyone to tell me with certainty who did it. Based on everything else I hear about this Spider, I wonder if Uldren wasn't also his work.

Many of my Guardian friends are still doing favors for this… creature who, at best, betrays his own people. I am not sure that road leads anywhere good. Though perhaps I don't have the whole truth.

This is no history lesson. Take it however you will. Some people just don't have time to talk to old Eva, it seems.

---

Candy Dead Ghosts:
Mix Dark Ether Cane and Flash of Inspiration, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

What Makes Us One

What are the Awoken?

Not in the sense of "how did they come to be?" I don't care about that any more than about how the Cabal or the Fallen came to be. As far as I'm concerned, the universe decided it wanted them, and so it made them. Who am I to question the universe?

I've heard people talk about Petra Venj and the Tangled Shore lately. It's very confusing—roped-together rocks? And you just… jump between them? It's no wonder that Reefborn Awoken are so often suspicious of others if they grow up unable to even trust the ground!

But the Awoken as a whole… I feel like my grasp of them has certainly grown, but there are things I still don't understand. They are certainly part of what we consider "humanity," just as much as Humans or Exos. I know this and believe it, but what makes it so?

Is it because they are… made… like we are? The Cabal are built roughly as we are, but we do not consider them part of humanity.

Is it our shared relationship with the Traveler? As hard as it is to believe, I have heard the Fallen had a relationship with the Traveler. But they are not part of humanity. 

Does "humanity" consider only those who choose to walk among Humans? But by that logic, Reefborn Awoken who remain in the Reef are not part of humanity. I don't believe that's true, and yet…

Petra has spent most of her life in the Reef, hasn't she? I know she was here playing Emissary for a while, but she has always considered the Reef her true home. Would she describe herself as part of humanity? I think if you walked up to Petra and asked, "Are you a member of humanity?" she would respond, "I am an Awoken of the Reef." If you pressed her further and asked, "Yes, but which side are you on?" I believe she would say, "The side of Queen Mara Sov."

So then is humanity something we choose? Or is it ascribed to you? Is it a title to be earned or a birthright, a heritage? Are the Awoken part of humanity due to one of these stipulations, or—

Could it be that the Awoken are part of humanity because of ALL of these stipulations? Individually, these ideas don't define humanity any more than a cloak defines a Hunter, but COLLECTIVELY—that they are built as we are, that they share our relationship with the Traveler, and that many of them gladly walk among us here on Earth… Maybe THAT is what makes them part of humanity—everything bound together, just as we are all bound together.

That togetherness is what helped us win the Red War, and I truly believe it will help us push back the Darkness for good. Never forget that our unity is what makes us strong, and the Awoken will always be part of that.

---

Ill-Fortune Cookies:
Mix Dark Ether Cane and Impossible Heat, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

You Get Used to Him

There is a strange fellow who… well, perhaps you've seen him. He doesn't really come and go as you or I might traditionally think. It's more that you turn around, and he is either there or he is not. His appearances are steady and predictable, at least. He's called Xûr. I'm not sure why one draws the tiny arrow over his name, but it's important to try and respect the wishes of those we don't understand.

The first time I ever saw Xûr, I was by myself at my stall in the Tower. The Old Tower, I suppose you'd call it now. I hadn't been there long at all. I looked up, and this man had appeared, seemingly out of nowhere! His back was to me, but even from behind, something seemed off about him. Something in his posture. As he started to turn, I noticed his whole face appeared to be covered in hair. It even seemed to be moving, gently flowing on its own—but there was no wind.

When the light hit his face, I screamed and ducked down behind part of my cabinets. I was sure this abomination had come to invade us, that more of them were just out of sight, that we were done for.

Eventually, I realized no one else was screaming. I heard no sounds of distress. I peeked out and saw that everyone was going about their business. No one was panicking but me! Many people saw him—several were interacting with him.

Slowly, I stood back up and tried to go about my business—though I rarely looked away. Tess came over before too long, and I asked her about the strange figure.

"Oh, that's Xûr!" she said, unconcerned. "He comes through every so often and sells particular, hard-to-find things." She considered him for a moment, then added, "Could do with a bit of a wardrobe update, if you ask me, but he's otherwise harmless."

"What is he?" I asked. "I've never seen a creature like that before."

"Xûr is… I believe he's called a Jovian. They're from out beyond even the Reef. I'm afraid I don't know much else about them."

"But they're… friendly?"

"Well, they don't attack us, if that's what you mean. I don't know that I'd call Xûr friendly, but he's not hostile."

I felt more at ease after our conversation, though I still could not shake my fear. For many months, I jumped every time I saw him and had to fight back the instinct to hide.

Eventually, I grew used to his presence. I even began to appreciate his predictability—it became a symbol that everything was functioning as it should. The fear evaporated with time.

I have often found that my first reaction to new things is fear. Perhaps it is this way for everyone. However, I have also found that if I accept and acknowledge my fear, it is easier to push through until I am no longer afraid. The new thing has almost never been as frightening as I first feared.

---

Strange Cookies:
Mix Taken Butter and Electric Flavor, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

Rumors

I don't know very much about the prophecies of the controversial Warlock, Osiris. I know that his theories divided the Tower, civilians and Guardians alike, and I've seen that division spring up in strange places, even years after Osiris left to pursue his radical research.

Here is a joke for you, my friend:

A follower of Osiris and a skeptic sit down at a table to work out their differences. They die there.

Don't ask me where I heard that. But don't be surprised—if you think the people of the City don't poke fun at you Guardians now and again, you're not paying attention.

Anyway.

I heard rumors about Brother Vance, one of Osiris's followers. The rumors started like myths: how he might use the knowledge discovered by Osiris to perform miracles or to raise Guardians to their full potential. Then, for a reason I couldn't see myself, the rumors changed: Vance was a fanatic unacquainted with Osiris, left waiting endlessly on the sands of Mercury for something that would never come.

Guardians are so full of action. I think they couldn't empathize with such passivity.

As for me, I think we should believe in things and people we can see for ourselves. What someone does now is better proof of their spirit than what they are fabled to have done. It seems to me that waiting forever for your hero to return, poring over the same books and letters, relying on a hope for the future you cannot control… well. I see it as wasted time.

Then, I tend toward action myself. Busy hands, busy mind.

But I also think it must be lonely and disheartening to be abandoned by your idol, even if that abandonment exists only in your own mind. I imagine a man like Vance holds a lonely vigil. I think, perhaps, he knows what people say about him, and he tries to lift himself above it—and drives himself further into isolation.

But then, I've never met him. I don't know which rumors are true and which are silly gossip. I only know that the Dawning welcomes everyone—especially those who feel the most isolated.

<|endoftext|>

The Good Fight

When Guardians found their way into the Dreaming City, many of them came to tell me about it. Their stories of a beautiful place filled with towering cliffs and ancient, holy buildings were like fairytales to me. As with many of the stories I hear from Guardians, I marveled that such a thing could be real.

I remember, in particular, an Awoken Warlock named Nadya, who came to visit me in the way many Guardians do: quiet, sheepish, hoping for tea.

I always welcome them in for a cup, of course.

That day, Nadya sat at my table with her untouched cup of tea. If I hadn't already spent so much time cheering people up in my kitchen, I might have pressed her, but I knew better. I waited. Eventually, she looked up at me.

"I feel like I found a piece of myself and then lost it, all at once," Nadya said, soft and sad. "I know Guardians aren't meant to look to their heritage beyond the Traveler, but the Dreaming City felt like…" She trailed off.

"Home?" I said.

Nadya lowered her eyes. "Yes. Like home." She was quiet, and then looked at me again. "Is that wrong?"

"No," I said. "Of course not. Home is not always a single place, you know. I've had many homes."

Nadya nodded and pushed her tea cup around on the table, distracted. This time, I had to wait a while before she would speak again. Eventually, she said, "I feel like I'm mourning the loss of something I never really had."

I don't fully understand the curse that plagues the Awoken homeland. I know that it came about through great misunderstanding and peril. I know that Uldren Sov and another creature I have never heard of were at the center of that peril. But, from what I hear, there were no clear enemies in that story. No single place to lay blame.

That can make it so much harder to accept.

Nadya's heartbreak was tangible. I felt it in my own heart. But, even as I saw her suffering, I also saw Nadya stand up and go back to her work. She returned to the Dreaming City, week after week.

I think we are not defined by our successes, but by our ability to keep fighting when the fight seems unwinnable. Not just Guardians. All of us.

Thank you, all of you, for being an example of that spirit.

<|endoftext|>

A Very Nice Young Man

One of my favorite spots in the Tower is a secluded little bench that overlooks the City. I watch the ships coming in, and the birds, and the clouds—I get so busy that it helps to step away for a little while and remind myself of what's outside. The other day, I was sitting on this bench when a very tall Titan stepped up beside me, his hands folded in front of him.

"Excuse me, ma'am," he said. "Would you mind if I sit here?"

I smiled and shifted over to make room. "Please," I said. He sat. His shoulders were so broad that I had to shift over a little more.

He had a bag of birdseed with him, and I watched as he spread a little of it on the ground. The pigeons came quickly—in fact, I'd noticed a few more than usual the instant he sat down. I wondered to myself how often he came here and how we'd managed to miss each other thus far. He was not an easy man to miss.

The cooing of the pigeons and the far-off bustle of the City were soothing, and seeing as the gentleman seemed to have no trouble with companionable silence, I closed my eyes. After a moment, though, I was aware of footsteps and whispering behind us. A young woman, another Titan, came up to the bench and said to the gentleman, smiling nervously, "It's such an honor to meet you. You're an inspiration to Titans everywhere."

He nodded humbly. "Thank you," he said. They spoke briefly. He asked her name. They talked about how she'd just come back from being stationed on Io for patrol duty. He commended her commitment to keeping the people of the system safe, and then she and her friends left.

My companion went back to feeding the pigeons. After a moment, I asked him, mostly joking, "Are you famous?"

He glanced at me and inclined his head, hesitantly. "A little bit."

"I see," I said, smiling. After a moment, I added, "My name is Eva."

"Saint."

I sat with that answer for a moment and then asked, "Saint-14?" I'd heard the story of how he fought for the City during the Battle of Six Fronts, so long ago, and another more fantastical story about how he'd defeated a powerful Fallen fellow by headbutting him. Anytime I heard that story, I always found myself hoping he had a good, sturdy helmet.

"That's right," he said, spreading a little more birdseed. "It is a pleasure to meet you, Eva."

We sat a little longer together, watching the pigeons and the clouds, before I finally had to excuse myself to go back to my work.

As I said, I'd heard the legend of Saint-14 before. Many legends of remarkable Guardians make them seem like mythical figures, so far removed from anything the civilians of the City will ever see or experience. The legendary Saint-14 does not seem that way to me at all.

In fact, I think he is a very nice young man.

<|endoftext|>

A Note of Warning

The Dawning is a time of great generosity and gift-giving. It feels very good to receive a gift, especially a thoughtful one that was chosen for you by someone you care for. If you approach gift-giving with love and a selfless heart, it deepens your relationship to another person. As I'm sure you know by now, it is as rewarding to give a gift as to receive it.

When you find yourself receiving many gifts, maybe unexpectedly, look to the giver. Have you given them anything? Gift-giving is not score-keeping, but when you are showered with luxurious gifts made of gold, engraved with your name, lavished upon you with great bouts of flattery—stop and think about why you have received them.

Sometimes you should question these gifts. Consider who the gift-giver has favored before. Why you? Why now? If you have no satisfying or reassuring answer to these questions, the chances are good that this gift-giver is carefully tallying your "debts," and will one day move to collect them.

Not all gifts are given freely. Remember that.

That's all, my dear friend. I have no story this time. Just a warning.

<|endoftext|>

A Touch of Style

I met Ada-1 for the first time in the weeks of preparation leading up to the Dawning. She came to me at my stall and lingered off to the side as I spoke to a customer. I could see her out of the corner of my eye: still, silent, and… maybe just slightly nervous.

Perhaps I imagined that.

Once I was through with the customer, I gestured for her to come over to my worktable. She did, paused a moment to watch me with my fabrics, and then asked, "Is the Dawning a Guardian holiday?"

I smiled. I knew from some of my regulars—the sort that were inclined to gossip—that Ada was new to the traditions of the City.

"The Dawning is for everyone," I said. "Everyone in the City and beyond it, if they would like to celebrate."

She was quiet a moment, considering. I could not tell whether she was shy or just one of those solitary people who prefer silence. I let her be, either way. Eventually, she turned as if to leave, and then paused to look at me again.

"I have seen your patterns," she said. "Your color schemes for this holiday. I have some ideas, if you would ever like to hear them."

Surprised, I asked for her thoughts right away. I quickly learned that she has an impeccable sense for color and design. She didn't care to overtake the project of designing shaders for the Dawning, but she acted as a quiet and talented consultant. Over the next week or so, we spent many hours together sorting through rolls of fabric, comparing colors, considering combinations. While I think she remained wary of growing too chummy, I like to believe she started to warm to me—and to the idea of becoming a part of a long-standing City tradition.

I know very little about Ada, except that she lived through the Dark Age. Those were harrowing times. Guardians then were not what they are today.

Living through times of peril can affect us in many different ways. Sometimes those experiences change us for the better, and sometimes they don't. After all she experienced, Ada made a way of life for herself that suits her, and she has slowly begun to reconcile that life with the lives she sees being lived here, in the Tower and the City. That takes courage. I admire it.

<|endoftext|>

A Necessary Distance

I believe that our City is at its best when Guardians and the people they protect live together, sharing their experiences and traditions.

I know Guardians experience things that many of us will never fully understand. Looking to find happiness, only a foolish person would say, "I wish to live forever." The nature of your lives is a great gift from the Traveler, but also a tremendous burden, one which the Guardians of the City have taken on willingly by living here with us.

Because of the Traveler's Light, Guardians are constantly placed into danger. Yes, the stakes are different for a Guardian than for the rest of us—but is the emotional toll so different? How much do you rely on desensitizing yourselves to fear and trauma in order to do your essential work? Ikora tells me not to think on this. I cannot help it.

I have never truly understood the Guardian Eris Morn. I like to plant myself firmly in the now, in the tangible. How can I make the lives of my friends better right now? How can I bring them good cheer, or good conversation, or good food? In the past, I have found Eris to be the opposite of this. I have, at least in my own head, accused her of being… gloomy.

However, I have begun to think she just sees things from a very different perspective than I do. The things that she has experienced are beyond anything I can imagine, and so we see the world in different ways.

So yes, I believe Guardians and non-Guardians should live closely and try to focus on our similarities. But I also understand that, sometimes, our differences push us apart. For some of you, it is a necessary distance that you must maintain in order to do your work. This is a truth we must all learn to live with.

All that said, Eris does play a part in many of our traditions, especially the Festival of the Lost. What a fuss she makes, though! The first time I asked for her help, she said to me, "Eva, the work I am doing is essential to humanity's survival. I do not have time for a, a… party."

I said what I always say: "The little things will get us through just as much as the big things. Let's not allow the flowers to wilt in the pot while you're still digging the garden, Eris."

She never likes that. But she always agrees.

And I think she likes taking part. I once saw her hand a box of raisins to a masked Guardian, stone-faced, and then turn around and smile. Eris! Smiling!

Once I plan a Dawning event to put her in charge of, we'll have her grinning ear to ear, I'm sure of it.

<|endoftext|>

Dawning Helpers

The frames in the Tower have been a great help to me in bringing holiday traditions to the people of the City. I'm not as young as I used to be, and there's an awful lot of confetti to sweep up after the celebrations die down.

Just the other day, I found myself in an ill-used stairway near the Annex, carrying a box of streamers and looking for some help. At the bottom of the stairs, sweeping the same patch of clean floor, was a frame. I felt an instant sympathy for it, and then a practical annoyance. Surely we could deploy our resources better.

"I am here for maintenance," the frame said to me.

"You seem maintained," I said cheerfully. I held the box of streamers out to him. "This room looks well-swept. Perhaps you could help me decorate the Courtyard."

The frame tilted its head down to look at the box. "I am here for mmmmmmm—" It looked up at me again. It continued to sweep, but faster. "Mai—zzzt—this task is below—his Excellenssssss—do not engage, e-e-e-end conv—"

I watched patiently.

"His bene-ne-nevolent Majest-t-t-ty, Maje—maintenance." It stopped sweeping. "I am here for maintenance."

I 'hmmph'ed to myself, set down my box, and took the broom from the frame. I leaned the broom against the wall and picked up the box again. My back was already aching. I handed the box over and then pointed to the stairs. "Come along with me."

With some coaxing, I managed to lure it to the Courtyard. I pointed to the places I wanted it to hang the streamers.

"I am here for maintenance," it said weakly.

I left it to the work without much hope that it would get done to my standards—but one can't be choosy when one is on a deadline. Not surprisingly, when I returned, both the frame and the box of streamers were gone. Deciding to choose my battles, I let it go—and now I am even more grateful for the friendly, functioning frames in my employ.

<|endoftext|>

Lighter Days

I've known Zavala a long time, you know. He was one of the first people to greet me when I arrived at the Tower all those years ago—though I suppose "greet" may be too soft a word. It implies a sort of friendliness, a warmth. And Zavala… if you've never met him? He can be a bit stern. He's hardened further since the Red War, I'm sorry to see—though I suppose we all have, to some degree. In any case, that very first meeting left a sour taste in my mouth. I hate to admit that I avoided Zavala when I could after that—though sometimes he makes himself unavoidable.

It wasn't long after this meeting that I celebrated my first Dawning at the Tower. Everyone's spirits were high, and it was so nice to see the people I had come to care about smiling and toasting each other. I remember Tess and I had just finished with a bit of decorating, and she had left to get something when Zavala began heading my way. "Oh no," I thought. "Oh no, not this man." Ah, but he came over anyway, so I smiled and wished him a Happy Dawning—because I DID wish good things for him. It is often the sternest among us who hold the saddest hearts.

He wished me the same, and then—I almost couldn't believe it—he smiled! We exchanged some brief pleasantries, and… I don't remember what I said that brought this on, but suddenly he said, "Oh, that reminds me of a joke!"

A joke! At first I thought I must have heard him wrong, because the Titan Vanguard had always struck me as the "no time for joking" sort. But he had barely begun telling this story before I noticed how much more relaxed his posture was. It seemed the spirit of the Dawning had reached even this stone man.

I remember only pieces of the joke these days—I believe it had to do with a Guardian and a Fallen Captain?—but I clearly remember that he stumbled over the first few words and had to start again. I gave the warmest smile I could to encourage him, and he went on to tell one of the longest, most awkward jokes I have ever heard. And listen, I loved every minute of it. Truly, I couldn't have been happier. Oh, I clapped and laughed along with what I swear was real, true joy from Zavala. To have such a guarded soul open like that—few things are more beautiful. I admired him so in that moment, that he could push himself beyond the boundaries he'd held himself to. I remember hoping that I could someday be so brave in my own way. For the first time, I didn't just respect him as one of the City leaders. For the first time, I felt real, genuine affection for Zavala, the person. Zavala, my friend.

He has been dear to my heart ever since.

---

Gjallardoodles:
Mix Ether Cane and Delicious Explosion, add Essence of Dawning, then bake.

<|endoftext|>

The Red Box

"Is that him?" Lavinia whispers.

"Oh yes. Nobody does 'unnervingly bewildered' like our boy Xur." The Titan points down into the shadows of the Tower hangar, where a cloaked figure hunches over nothing, as if run through by an invisible spear. "He comes here to trade. We didn't let him in, but we don't stop him, either."

Lavinia, as afraid of success as she is of failure, shivers through a thrill of nerves. "Xûr," she corrects the Titan, then, feeling like a pedant: "Sorry. Cryptarch habit."

"Right. Xur. That's what I said." The Titan shrugs. "I like old stuff too, Cryptarch. Go ask your question."

Lavinia's mother told her that on the day of her birth, a witch pronounced her lucky. She will have to trust in that luck now.

She descends to the hangar floor and walks determinedly up to the thing. It does not even lift its hood to look. "Xûr," she says, unsure what to do with her hands. "I'm Cryptarch Lavinia Garcia Umr Tawil. I've chosen to study the Nine." As all fools do, her master told her. "I want to ask you a question."

"You have no need of it." The voice hidden in that squirming face is a man's, low and incongruously clear. He sounds, Lavinia thinks, as if he is trying very earnestly and very hard to be understood. "But I will give it to you."

She has practiced this question, clung to it as her anchor when she drifted away from her master and friends. "We salvaged information from a Ghost on Venus, in the Ishtar Sink. It described an artifact found by our Golden Age ancestors. A copper box, painted red, lightly damaged, full of dust. On the individual motes of dust we found engraved maps of rocky worlds. Mars, Earth, Venus, other planets...maybe every Earthlike planet in the galaxy."

Xûr lifts its grasping face. She sees an almost human curiosity, but stretched over the rack of an alien shape, a provisional superstructure cobbled together to make a manlike form, ever on the verge of failure. "Planets," it says. "My motions, in large part, depend upon their configuration."

She doesn't shudder, much. "My colleagues say the artifact came from the Vex, as a warning that they will exist wherever we go. But I think," she swallows, "I think it's from the Nine. Did the box of dust come from the Nine, Xûr?"

Xûr's golden eyes shine at her. "I am here for a reason," he says. "I cannot remember...the dust has changed. The dust is precious."

"Yes! Did the Nine send us the dust? Why is dust precious, Xûr?" Why dust at all? Why not a letter, or a clay tablet, or anything clear?

"Blood," Xûr says, and makes a sound like a cough. "The blood is transformed. The wish is granted. The dust is commingled."

"It can't be the Vex who sent it," she insists, as if Xûr is another stubborn Cryptarch who won't listen.

(Lavinia you must stop babbling.) "The Vex use matter as a substrate for computation, not a medium to communicate. How is it that the Nine can map the mass of every rocky planet in the galaxy, but not send us a message on the radio? Why Venus? Why dust?"

"Much of dust was once cells," Xûr says, and coughs loudly. "This dust was once of the Nine. It commingled. It was forever changed." That harsh, percussive cough again. "Dust to dust. One dust to another. The Nine are the flesh of dust."

Lavinia realizes that the Agent of the Nine is laughing.

<|endoftext|>

The Stacks

The archives are silent. The staff have gone home for the Dawning festivities, and only the diligent City frames move through the stacks now, eradicating disorder, serenaded in soft susurrus by the wind of turbulence cleaners sweeping off the quartz storage plates in their cases of relic iron. Lavinia imagines that the frames are possessed by the ghosts of nameless librarians from Nineveh, ancient Mesopotamian souls ready to pluck an intruder's eyes. Are there any librarian Guardians? Can't Guardians turn invisible, sometimes? Maybe one's right behind her now, and its Ghost is covered in the eyes of library intruders—

This spooks her so badly that she nearly falls off the catwalk. She bites her tongue instead, rearranges her aching legs, and keys in another search. She's already sifted through hours of Tower audio records to extract key words from Xûr's babble. Now she just needs to follow that spoor back to the beast...

>REMOTE ARCHIVE DATABASE TEXT ONLY SEARCH INITIALIZED

>WELCOME, USER $nullStringRef

>PLEASE ENTER SEARCH QUERY

>nine 9 IX dust planetary alignment

>RESULTS

Shimizu et al. "Significant anomalies in dark matter detections cannot be explained by interactions of gravitational focusing bodies." Journal of Post-Collapse Cosmological Recovery Vol. 99 #1012

Gonzalez, Hari-4, and Mwangi. "Anomalies in dark matter detections as a function of topological T-genic complexities in orbital dynamics." Journal of Post-Collapse Cosmological Recovery, Vol. 99 #1014

Shimizu et al. "Massive anomalies in dark matter detections cannot be explained without teleonomic models of CDM efflux self-interaction." Journal of Post-Collapse Cosmological Recovery, Vol. 99 #1015

Gonzalez, Hari-5 and Mwangi. "Cold dark matter anisotropy as a non-teleonomic result of scale variant coupling between mass and dark stellar wind." Journal of Post-Collapse Cosmological Recovery, Vol. 99 #1015 Annex 1

Shimizu et al. "Non-overlapping magisteria, or interference pattern? The role of 'seizure by necessity' in the redeployment of scientific instruments for City defense." New Thoughts in Post-Red Politics, Vol. 1, #18.

Lakshmi-2 and Hari-5. "Do cognitive insight excursions cause spontaneous Exo reset syndrome? A case study." Unpublished archive material, personal collection.

>MORE RESULTS?

Strange. Very strange... full of references to the dark matter wind blowing through the solar system, a fact of galactic weather which every schoolchild learns and never thinks about again—

Something brushes across her scalp.

Lavinia jerks up from the screen, one bit lip away from a scream. A sensor mite, barely a glitter in the dark, tumbles past on the air currents. It will come after her body heat, and if it identifies her—then her master will have her writing ethnographic studies of deep sewer graffiti.

Hastily she keys in her next search string. "C'mon, Lucky Lavinia," she whispers, though she hates the name.

>nine 9 IX red legion ghaul attack on city undetected unforeseen no warning why

>RESULTS

Consensus Committee on the Invasion and Occupation of the City (CCIOC). "Final Report: Chapter 13: Red Legion Warfighting Doctrine and the Problem of Strategic Surprise." Free document.

CCIOC. "Annex to the Final Report: Failures of City and City Allies Early Warning and Intelligence Systems." Unpublished/redacted document: sensitive to City security.

CCIOC. "Annex to the Final Report: 'A Culture of Permissive Espionage: The Openness of the Tower to Faction Agents and Unknown Vendor Entities (UVEs).' Unpublished/redacted document: sensitive to City security.

Shimizu, Hassan. "Unexplained CDM self-interaction immediately before the Red Legion invasion of the City: coincidence, or purposeful interference?" Rejected manuscript, Shimizu academic store.

>MORE RESULTS?

>why rejected "Unexplained CDM self-interaction immediately before the..."

Rejection letter. "Reviewers concur that the paper does not provide a mechanism by which cold dark matter could interact with City sensors. Military experts attribute the Red Legion's stealthy approach to electronic deception by Psion operatives."

>MORE RESULTS?

Lavinia freezes. Something with tiny, tiny legs is scurrying around the rim of her ear. She tries to get her hand up, very slowly, but it's too late, the little sensor mite is crawling inside—

It buzzes, and the buzz makes a tiny voice. "Miss Garcia Umr Tawil," Master Rahool says. "Could we have a word about your choices, please?"

<|endoftext|>

The Bone

They are waiting for Lavinia in the courtyard of the ruined Tower, although they do not strike until she holds the guilty object in her hand. A Titan in New Monarchy red pins her to the ground; a Hunter with a gun barrel as wide as the moon cuffs her and calls her a looter.

"Rahool has a watch on this one," the Titan remarks, consulting her black-tipped Ghost. "Says it's for her own protection— "

The Hunter hisses and flinches back. "She's got a bone!"

"Get off of her! ENOUGH!" This new voice is strange to Lavinia but the power in it can only be Ikora Rey's. "You will never touch a mortal human in anger again! That is not our purpose!"

Thunder booms; something detonates nearby; Lavinia's ears pop. She gets the sense that, voluntarily or otherwise, the two New Monarchy Guardians have vanished. Lavinia tries to stand up but vertigo and the cuffs pitch her sideways and she lands hard on her hip. "Master Rey," she gasps, "I'm sorry, I should've filed a—"

"Lavinia." Ikora's coiled fury has a tooth of fear in it. "Open your left hand."

There's a bone in her hand. A long chunk of jaw with one huge white protruding tooth. It's warm and comforting and solid. She clutches it protectively, the key, the eggtooth that will crack open the mystery of the Nine and put her back in her master's good graces and save her from the probation Rahool dropped on her when he hauled her out of the archives—

With an effort of will that makes her shout out loud, she opens her fist and drops the Ahamkara bone.

Ikora Rey makes it fly away. "You weren't after that bone. It was after you. Did you make a wish, Lavinia? Did you ask to know about the Nine?"

She tries to explain that she didn't, that she only wanted to track the bone back to its source (Venus, hopefully), and to learn why the Nine needed the Ahamkara.

"Why do you think the Nine needed Ahamkara?" Ikora asks, dangerously.

"To make wishes," Lavinia pants. "Xûr didn't appear in the Tower until the end of the Great Ahamkara Hunt. Whatever they used to get from the Ahamkara..."

She leaves it unsaid: maybe the Nine are now getting it from Guardians.

Ikora rubs her brow. "I can't stop you. But if you keep looking, I can't protect you from the consequences."

"Help me!" Lavinia begs. "There's something here! Something that connects everything, the Trials, and the Ahamkara, and the Guardians, and the Nine. There are things the Consensus knows about Ghaul's attack, things they haven't told us—"

Ikora Rey puts up one finger. Lavinia shuts up. "Choose. Are you going to go back to school, and let me pretend you were never here? Or do I have to report you for theft of an Ahamkara bone?"

Lavinia takes a deep breath. "I'm sorry," she says. "I have to keep going. I'll try my luck."

The tribunal's verdict is unanimous. Lavinia Garcia Umr Tawil has trespassed against her oath to guard the common welfare of humanity. She will never set foot in the City again.

<|endoftext|>

The Kell

The Reef is punch-drunk. Lavinia thinks that loss has driven the Awoken into a state of collective traumatic mania. Endless revels light up the purple sky; people leap off the world and drift away into the artificial atmosphere, to be collected, protesting woozily, by the skiffload.

Lavinia is a wallflower here, forever on the edge of things. She gets pangs of homesickness every night, and tells herself that the Reef is the right place to begin her journey home. This meeting, right now, might be the first step...

"Much mourning," the Fallen at her side murmurs. "Master Ives murdered, Variks missing. Spider hires away my friends. Well, I stay to guard Master Ives's work. You come in, make yourself into a home. I will bring nitrogen tea and records."

"Thank you." Lavinia wants to laugh, or maybe cry, at the malapropism. If only she could make herself into a home! But it'll be all right in the end. She will find the Nine, bring the truth home, and earn forgiveness.

The Fallen returns with tea and devices. "Watch. Record from Prison of Elders. Master Ives fascinated by it."

She sees Skolas, fallen Kell of Fallen Kells, waiting to die by combat. His huge horned armor lags his motions, like a weary companion trying to mimic everything he does. A servitor pumps ether into him. Lavinia wonders what would happen if she took Ether. Would she feel clearly and coldly determined? Would she turn into a huge Lavinia? Would she stop missing her home?

"Mara." Skolas's mouth was not made for that name. "Mara, do you hear?"

"The Queen of the Reef sentenced him to the fate of all Fallen," Lavinia's companion sighs. "To strive, and struggle, and fail. But he was already lost. His mind broke at the Citadel, where he saw into time."

Skolas blows white vapor. Frost crackles on his mask. "You gifted me to the Nine. And they sent me back. People think you are a fool. That you made an error releasing me. Led your people to die on my blade, as I led my people to die on yours."

Lavinia's translator murmurs along with the Kell's words. "The Nine's agent never told me why he released me. Now I know. You know also, I think. Both of you require the Guardians... and the Nine do not understand life and death. So they sent me back to you, to make the Guardians come. They did not comprehend the harm.

"I do not comprehend them either. I traveled among the Jovians for years, in their dominion. But I do not know the Nine. You, Mara Sov... you are the only one who bargains with them. You are the only one who has foreseen their role in the game. You keep your successes secret, so the world only knows your mistakes. No wonder I underestimated you."

He hefts the scorch cannon his jailers have given him. Lavinia thinks of the tools his House once favored: shuttle and loom. "I saw the shape of the Nine on Venus. A place that was once precious to them, where wishes could transfigure their flesh. I saw that they are bound to this star and to these worlds. You are of a kind in that way, you and the Nine. Not I. I will be glad to leave this world, Mara Sov. I am tired of being a pawn."

Skolas lays his huge horned head back against the cell wall.

Lavinia, watching, spills her tea in excitement. "They want to help us," she whispers. "They're from our planets! They want to help! Oh, I'm sorry, I'm so clumsy—"

She leans down to mop up the spilled tea. A flashbang grenade detonates in her face. The next thing she knows an Awoken officer is sentencing her, under martial law, to life in prison for espionage.

Lavinia, fumbling for any sign of her good luck, is glad to see the Fallen go free.

<|endoftext|>

The Leviathan

Lavinia is shocked to find she prefers the CIC of an Awoken warship to the safety of a prison cell. She was terrified of Cabal during the occupation, and now she is going into battle against them, but she is not afraid.

"This is exciting," she whispers to the Royal Guard at her side, as the ship plummets stern-first toward the Cabal Leviathan. "Don't you think?"

The Royal Guard's jaw twitches. Either she is subvocalizing in code, or chewing her tongue off before she insults Paladin Kamala Rior's honored guest.

"Three minutes to closest approach," the flight dynamics officer calls. "INCO, target emissions status?"

"The Leviathan is illuminating us with targeting sensors. No change."

Paladin Rior pulls Lavinia out of her nook. "Miss Umr Tawil, please come observe the instruments with me."

"Do you do this a lot?" Lavinia wants to impress Paladin Rior, who sprung her from jail because, in her words, "every brain in the Reef is busy thinking about one problem, so I need your brain for another." Lavinia doesn't want to let her down. "Step on the tiger's tail with these... fly-bys?"

"Shows of force," Kamala corrects her. "We need Calus to believe that we're prepared to meet his ship with our own fleet. And if we can investigate other mysteries along the way, like your theory about the Nine, then all the better. Here, now. This is the device you requested. Please observe."

Kamala shows her a pane of black glass, illuminated by a faint purple fuzz that sweeps left to right. Lavinia touches it in awe. "That's dark matter?"

"Correct." Every schoolchild knows that most mass in the universe is dark matter; but it is nothing more than mass, and it never forms structures smaller than a galactic halo. Dark matter has no charge, passes through itself, never gathers into clumps, and has no chemistry. It is only ever dust.

"If you're right..." Kamala draws in a breath. "Any moment..."

"Drive field error!" the flight officer calls. "Minor perturbation on the leading edge. We are encountering unexpected mass groups. No corresponding radar or lidar contacts."

The black screen of the dark matter detector explodes into frenzied purple-white shapes, like the webs of a spider locked in sensory deprivation for a million billion years. Thick cords of shadowstuff that twine into strangling arms which branch again into thousands of tiny fingers that pierce—

—straight through the Cabal Leviathan.

"Oh my," Lavinia breathes. "That's the dark matter we're passing through?"

"Correct."

"And this is unusual? This level of structure?"

"Miss Tawil," Kamala says, "a single molecule of dark matter would be unusual. This is blasphemous excess. This is impossibility."

No, Lavinia thinks. This is the Nine. They're looking at Calus. They're reaching out. These are their hands...

"We should've thought to use this sensor earlier," Kamala muses. "Our Queen invented it to assist navigation when we were losing ships near Rhea. A phaeton backscatter scan. Very clever. Everything she did seems to make sense, eventually; she was so very far-sighted. No one else ever bargained with the Nine as an equal, did they? No one will ever know what good she did for them... our Queen of secrets."

"I have to contact the City!" Lavinia fumbles for some way to get a capture of the screen, a picture of the Nine, but she doesn't have her tablet. "I found them!"

"Ah. About that." Rior's armored hand falls on her shoulder. "The Queen's edict also forbids me from disclosing the Reef's knowledge of the Nine to individuals without REGAL clearance. So. Thank you for your assistance, Miss Tawil. Take her back to her cell."

If anyone ever calls her Lucky Lavinia again, she thinks she might shoot them.

<|endoftext|>

The Gate

The scout missile detonates less than a hundred thousand kilometers away from Cocytus: a pinprick of antimatter annihilation that energizes thousands of bomb-pumped lasers to spike the void with light. One of those beams strikes the Corsair's ship, pierces the stealth system, and reflects.

They are discovered.

"Lavinia," the Corsair radios. "I'm detected. I have to run."

"That wasn't the deal!" Lavinia shouts, pacing in front of a humming portal. "You break me out, you bring me here, and you carry my findings to the City! I need another ten minutes—"

"No time. Royal Guard coming. Shouldn't have paid in advance, Cryptarch."

The channel disintegrates into digital static as the Corsair's ship accelerates away.

Lavinia swears and beats her suited fist against her helmet. She's trapped in Cocytus! The last time the Awoken trapped anyone here, those poor souls went utterly insane. The doomed crew of the Dead Orbit scout ship Sophia called this place A113, an innocent catalogue number; they had no idea that the gates aboard—once a Golden Age experiment—had been captured by the Hive deity Crota. Those gates consumed them all.

Now Crota is gone, and Lavinia has gambled everything that the portals have fallen into other hands. Ahamkara make the unreal real—Calus's ship is surrounded by a halo of unreal dark matter, like a ring of probing hands, Guardians can manipulate reality itself—there is a pattern here, a story, and it leads to Cocytus, to what these gates might do.

"Logs." She pages frantically through the observations left by the Awoken sentries once stationed here. Cocytus was abandoned when the Red Legion attacked, all its defenses scavenged to reinforce Vesta. "What came out of the gate? What did you see?"

//EVENT 1 TIME 00:00:00 Portal 3 emitted a hydrogen nucleus. Over 72 hours, the emissions developed from diatomic hydrogen to nitrogen, carbon, oxygen, water, and simple organic molecules. At the 80-hour mark, a pellet of thick black hydrocarbon tar. Until 82:34:15, the gate emitted tar containing complex monomers and polymers—

"Come on!" Lavinia barks, paging ahead. "Come on, damn you, give me something real! Give me the Nine!"

//EVENT 1 TIME 524:03:11 Portal 3 emitted a living organism. Death was immediate. Autopsy team reports a spherical body, radius one point one meters, surfaced in hydrocarbon tar. Deep, evenly spaced "throats" converged on a central cavity perhaps intended to serve as lung and stomach. The body consists of an undifferentiated tissue of primitive cells. A basic spasm reflex forces air down the throats. Without enzymes to catalyze metabolism, the organism could not survive. Cell death occurred instantaneously throughout the mass. There were no provisions for self-repair or reproduction.

Lavinia reads this again, horrified and fascinated. Something on the far side of the gate is learning to assemble atoms, molecules, even haphazard life... something from a world of darkness and dust, probing its way into our structured existence, trying to cobble together a message, an emissary, a body...

The Nine are on the far side of this gate. She's sure of it. She's found them.

But to meet the Nine directly... would that be madness? Would there be any return? Would she ever see the City again?

She's come so far for her truth.

An alarm sounds in her helmet. INCOMING TRANSMAT, the suit warns her. INCOMING TRANSMAT. Her radio barks at her, stern as Ikora Rey: "Cryptarch Lavinia Garcia Umr Tawil." It's Paladin Rior. "You stand in violation of the Queen's law. Surrender yourself, and you will be treated fairly."

Lavinia stares into the yawning gate. Beyond it lies a realm of utter darkness and dissolution, a place where nothing exists except the most alien forms. To go there would be suicide. She would die like the poor tarball creature.

But what lies behind her? Failure? Surrender? Shame? A life in a cell?

"Lucky Lavinia," she says, and leaps through.

<|endoftext|>

The Declaration

You want our source, our primal cause?
WE ARE THE SHADOWS OF YOUR WORLDS' MASS
old dark dust ever gravity-flowing
INTELLIGENCES WHORLED ROUND EACH WORLD'S CORE,
9 H O U R G L A S S P I N C H E S I N A G A L A C T I C W I N D
Too large - to see
too small + to miss
our mass binds = your matter frees
.our philosophi | es lay divided.

We try to guard and nurture you.
AND WE CHERISH YOU AS SHADOWS CHERISH FLAME
watching your swift bright lives flicker, die
SUSTAINED BY THE PATTERNS OF YOUR THOUGHT –
B U T D I S T A N T U N R E A C H A B L E
Beyond - what we are - or what we were
the answer lies + in severing
two sides = a single coin
.alliance and contact | solitude and silence.

Do you understand our fates are intertwined?
FOR YOU SEED THE ANISOTROPY WE SUSTAIN
but decay is decay is decay
A COLOSSAL FRAGILITY, A COMPLEX FIDUCIARY.
T O N G U E L E S S W E T R Y T O S P E A K
There must be - another way
we must become + more than we are
always together = never touching
.dependence i | s deathfated.

<|endoftext|>

The Nine

I am.

I am I am I am I am I am I am I am I am I am I am I.

At first this is all the loop of dust can calculate. It is the hardest thing in the universe for the dust to make a loop at all, because, like a gust of wind or a river, it was only meant to move one way. For a mind to function, the end of one thought must alter the beginning of the next: so, like rivers, like wind, the Nine could not have minds until they could make loops.

Lavinia Garcia Umr Tawil comprehends the Nine.

They were already ancient when the first human beings named themselves. Their flesh was older than stars: the dark dust wind that blows through the galaxy, pinched by the gravity of Sol and its planets, drawn into their cores and exhaled again.

These were the Nine.

In time loops did form. Great arcs of outbound dust collapsed back to their sources to create circuits of shadow. The thickening and thinning of these circuits were the first thoughts of the Nine. They dwelt in massive indifference, unborn primordial gods. There was no force among them except gravity; no structure except the distribution of mass. Their hearts were in the cores of worlds, but their farthest streams faded out into the turn of the galaxy.

They were the fountains of Achlys, the night before chaos.

But life arose on the worlds at the heart of the Nine, tiny complicated motions of ecosystems and metabolisms and computations. That life left mass-shadows in the wind of the Nine, plucking at them like harp strings. From these trembles of structure the Nine learned to seed enormous resonating waves, thoughts vaster than worlds.

So the Nine awoke. And in time they understood that they were as fragile as they were mighty; for if the life that seeded their thoughts ever passed away, they too would vanish.

They had no eyes to catch light. They had no ears to hear. And yet they turned their wills upon the alien world of Matter, and strove to learn, for they knew they had to protect their hearts, or die.

With a horror of revelation so absolute that it would drive her mad if she still had sanity to lose, Lavinia understands where the Nine have always been. They are within everyone, every system, every living and moving thing. Trillions and pentillions of slim dark matter tentacles plunged through all our bodies, drinking up the complexity of our lives and thoughts.

We are all pinched silhouettes impaled on the twitchings of infinitely long spiderlegs.

<|endoftext|>

The Witch

Came now the Traveler, and with it a strange hope—for the Traveler's Light had the power to cause without causation! If the Nine had the Light, they could seed their own minds, free themselves from the dependence on matter-life! They could gain forces beyond Gravity to structure themselves, and so become more than wraiths of dark dust. They could enter the mad alien superworld of our chemical reality.

So they turned to this new hope... and were divided.

"Come to me," a voice calls to Lavinia, although there is nowhere to go, nothing to be, not even emptiness but the absence of anything to be empty or full. Lavinia perceives, without emotion, that she now exists as a structure of dark dust, a sandstorm blowing against itself.

"Come," the voice calls. "I am Nasya. You are not safe. Come with me."

Not safe?

No. Of course she is not safe. Because there are factions among the Nine: one faction sent Xûr and Orin to study Guardians and the Light, to seek the secret of effect-without-cause and to protect the source of that secret, the last source, now that the Ahamkara are gone. Those five played at alchemy with the Cocytus gates, turning dark dust into energy and then into matter, but they could not unlock the secrets of our mad existence. They needed ambassadors. Go-betweens.

The other faction walks a different path. A path of folds and needles slipped through spacetime itself, existential syringes yielding new spaces, to be remade as the Nine desire. They have tried to gather enough dark dust in one place to form a black hole, and found it difficult: when the dark mass collapses in gravity's fist, the dust passes through itself and scatters.

But difficult is not impossible. And there is far, far more dark matter in the universe than bright. They will find a way to make new worlds of it. They will end their dependence on life, and on the Light of Guardians, which the falling veil will soon snuff out forever...

In passing, Lavinia sees the entire history of the Queen's interactions with the Nine: more than anyone suspected, and more vital. She sees how one of the Nine blinded Guardians to Ghaul's approach, risking everything (for Ghaul would have destroyed the sun, and the Nine with it) to learn how to steal the Light. She sees how that one was punished.

"Come!" Nasya calls, urgently. "Come with me! Come quickly, before—"

Something dark and hypodermic pierces the void beneath Lavinia and slurps her down, pulls her through a proboscis so tiny that it breaks her apart into a stream of single particles, one after another. She is annihilated...

... and reborn, somewhere, somewhen, made of flesh again, shaking and dripping fear-sweat, mewling like a little baby. Her cheek presses against a warm wooden floor. There's a fireplace, and a fire in it, and strong wind outside that sucks at the flames.

The clever-looking old lady at the desk looks up. "Ah," she says. "Lavinia! You made it."

"Wh—" Lavinia gasps. "Wha—"

She smiles, as if Lavinia's confusion is the sweetest greeting she's ever heard. "Don't be afraid. You've come to exactly the right place."

"Where...?"

"Someplace where you're appreciated. Where we can really use everything you've learned." The old lady pours a thin stream of tea into a cup of bone. "Didn't I tell you that you were lucky, back when you were born?"

<|endoftext|>

Outliers

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 73XK5V2PG1$AUN-326
REP #: 692-FALLEN-DUS
AGENT(S): RAN-187
SUBJ: Countercultural intelligence update

1. Fallen armed forces continue to fall back from active fronts across Terra. Factions of House Dusk remain active in the European Dead Zone. Throughout the rest of the globe, refugee attack incidents have dropped by more than 70% since the conclusion of the Red War—largely attributable to depressed Fallen and human populations rather than any significant change in interspecies relations.

2. In absence of any united leadership, House Dusk continues to splinter and radicalize.

The recent trending emergence of so-called "crime syndicates" (cf. report #004-FALLEN-SIV) is emblematic of the continuing destructuralization of Fallen society. Likely an artifact of multi-generational colonization of human strongholds, this agent believes that because these syndicates have no relation to indigenous Fallen culture, young Fallen are appropriating and imitating human mythology in absence of a strong cultural heritage of their own.

Much like the dissolution of the Kell/Archon theology, this is positive news for those interested in the complete extirpation of invasive Fallen from the system.

3. That being said, we should continue to monitor reunification efforts. Several personalities have emerged as potential leaders. First, the would-be integrationists:

VIP #1121, well-known to Guardians of the inner system as Variks, or Variks the Loyal. Directly responsible for the release of the murderer Uldren Sov from the Prison of Elders, #1121 subsequently fled Awoken holdings in the Reef and now styles himself the Kell of Kells, still representing House Judgement. The Praxic Order has petitioned the Vanguard for permission to detain #1121. The Awoken monarchy, acting through the Queen's Wrath, has claimed jurisdiction over #1121 and further stated that any prosecution in absence of their involvement will be considered an act of war. The Vanguard has not yet made a statement about their position on the issue.

VIP #3987, another former confederate of the Awoken, is a lesser-known personality known as Mithrax. Scattered field reports suggest that like #1121, #3987 styles himself a Kell of the so-called "House Light," an otherwise unknown House apparently founded by #3987 himself. We have secondhand accounts that Mithrax has engaged in allied operations with Guardians in the field, though we have not as yet been able to corroborate these accounts with any degree of veracity. This agent is inclined to treat these reports with a healthy degree of skepticism until otherwise confirmed, as they may be propaganda from Fallen sympathizers in the Old Russian and Red War Guardian cohorts. We have requested intelligence records from the Awoken which may further clarify the matter.

In addition, whatever the findings of said intelligence records may be, it should be stressed that one or two sympathetic outliers cannot be relied upon to erase the wrongs of past centuries, nor should their good-faith efforts to correct the sins of their forebears be taken as sufficient symbolic reparation.

Second, the would-be separatists:

VIP #4503, a recent personality known as Fikrul, or the Fanatic. A close confederate of the murderer Uldren Sov, #4503 has the apparent ability to raise himself from the dead in a manner not dissimilar to Ghost-aided resurrection. Though his reign on the Tangled Shore was limited, he possesses sufficient skill, hatred, and motive to warrant on-going surveillance. Given #4503's propensity for resurrection, the inherent risk of #4503 reclaiming the body of the murderer Uldren Sov from his final resting place in the Dreaming City goes without saying. The Vanguard continues to deploy fireteams to suppress #4503; our agents have reached out to the Cryptarchy and the Gensym Scribes to request guidance as to his permanent destruction.

VIP #2029, a once-known personality known as Eramis, or Eramis, the Shipstealer. A House Devils Baroness incarcerated during the Wolf Wars, #2029 successfully fled the Prison of Elders during the mass escape orchestrated by #1121. #2029 is a classical Fallen pirate of the old ways: vicious, uncompromising, and possessing cunning of the highest degree. Field reports indicate that she is rallying violent dissidents to reconstruct House Devils from the ground up. This agent believes her to be the most viable candidate for universal Fallen reunification, and would urge the Vanguard and other interested leadership to aggressively prioritize her destruction.

We have come too far to pull our punches now.

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Instability

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 73XK5V2PG1$AUN-326
REP #: 1021-CITY-VAN
AGENT(S): IKO-006
SUBJ: Instability of leadership

1. Following the events of the Red War and the recent loss of the Hunter Vanguard, current acting Vanguard leadership has struggled to define its function and role within what is an otherwise largely egalitarian and self-governing body of active Guardians. Much like the current popular perception of the Awoken queen, we have failed to adequately respond to questions about our integrity, competence, and unity as we have grieved the loss of the Hunter Vanguard.

The Vanguard was never intended as a governing body of authoritarians, nor does it function as such, but in times of turmoil and uncertainty, people rightly look to figures of strength for guidance and support. Neither the Titan Vanguard nor I ever intended to become politicians. We are warriors, first and foremost, and we no longer feel that we are able to serve as such.

In the spirit of honest self-reflection in the face of justified skepticism, we have begun to discuss the possibility of stepping down to invite new leadership into our place, as well as the general merits of disbanding the Vanguard entirely—largely because we believe that this crisis of identity will plague anyone who steps into this role. We recognize that this is ill-timed, and we will endeavor to involve the Consensus, the Guardians themselves, and all other interested parties in the discussion as appropriate. I specifically invite the Hidden to closely monitor the situation without my involvement. Should you agree that we are doing more harm than good, please do not hesitate to take whatever actions you agree are necessary.

2. Regarding the open Hunter Vanguard position and the terms of Cayde's Dare: The situation is unprecedented. Were we to trace the chain of culpability back to its first link, I believe we would be obligated to elect a Hive god to our council.

Our current inclination is to caucus with the Hunters to debate the benefits of opening the position to any interested and well-qualified Hunter. Such a debate is, of course, contingent upon the continued existence of the Vanguard itself. We will make an effort to convene the Hunters as soon as possible, but this group should be well aware that most credible candidates have fled the Tower in anticipation of such a debate.

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Cocytus

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 73XK5V2PG1$AUN-326
REP #: 002-A899OF-COC
AGENT(S): TRU-135
SUBJ: Intercepted transmission

SENSITIVE!! – CONTENTS BELOW SNIFFED FROM ENCRYPTED REEF DATACOMS – SENSITIVE!!

1. We are maintaining our containment posture at Cocytus. I assess no immediate danger to the system, and we have enough firepower to destroy the station and its mechanisms remotely if the on-site warheads fail. The station remains in the stable heliocentric orbit where it was parked after the destruction of Ceres.

2. I do not ask confirmation of these theories, and in fact I beg you not to address them. But I have reviewed the site records, and the fate of the Sophia's crew after they were herded to Cocytus stinks of Hive madness. The Cocytus apertures must—at the time—have opened into a Hive manifold associated with Crota. Whatever their original purpose, when Crota established his presence in the system, they became conduits into hell... and the Sophia crew's ugly end proved it. Whoever drove the Sophia to its doom then installed the Cocytus Instruments around the original Golden Age facility to study Crota's manifold.

3. Crota is dead. His hold on these gates has passed. Now something else is trying to pass through into our world... but it is so alien, and its sendings so bafflingly malformed, that I fear this can only end in madness.

4. The first "visitors" through the third gate, at event time 00:00:00, were simple hydrogen atoms. Over the course of 72 hours, the emissions developed from diatomic hydrogen to nitrogen, carbon, oxygen, water, and simple organic molecules. At the 80-hour mark, we received our first macroscopic visitor, a pellet of thick black hydrocarbon tar. Until 82:34:15 the gate vomited tar containing increasingly complex monomers and polymers.

5. The visitors then began to assume geometric form. A hail of cubes and hexagons, each built from molecular crystal of the same form as the whole. A series of fractal shapes that shattered under internal flaws. Several capsules or membranes of increasingly complex structure, containing water or oil. These may have been cellular precursors.

6. At 524:03:11 a living organism appeared. Death was immediate. Remote dissection describes a spherical body, radius approximately one meter, surfaced in thick hydrocarbon tar. Deep, evenly spaced "throats" converged on a central cavity perhaps intended to serve as lung and stomach. The body exhibited undifferentiated tissue of primitive plantlike cells, capable of spasming to pump air or fluid in and out of the throats. Without enzymes to catalyze metabolism, or internal structure to dispose of waste, the organism could not survive. Cell death occurred almost instantaneously throughout the mass. There were no provisions for self-repair or reproduction.

7. At 690:29:54 the gate emitted a tubular organism. For ninety seconds the organism moved across the gate chamber by contracting and expanding, then expired. Remote dissection describes a two-meter-long body with a spinal cavity full of energy-rich carbohydrate fluid. The organism's contractions forced this fluid through a capillary network, where simple cells catabolized the carbohydrates into energy to power further contractions. The buildup of heat and waste quickly denatured the enzymes required for metabolism, and the organism died. There were no provisions for self-repair or reproduction.

8. The gate has remained inactive since, barring short emissions of molecules which may be experimental proteins. Remote drones have registered similar ambient molecules within the Hellmouth on Luna, though we have been unable to identify their source. We will maintain the quarantine until otherwise instructed.

The overwhelming impression I have is one of learning, of increasing sophistication in the synthesis and arrangement of matter. The atoms in these structures were isotopically pure and impossible to date, but I have the uncomfortable sense that even they were freshly made.

9. Probes and instruments dispatched through the third gate do not return. Annihilation is apparently immediate, and so total that it seems to result from a fundamental failure of the ability to exist rather than any weapon or countermeasure. Yet something does exist on the far side, and it is trying to learn the rules of our world from very first principles. I do not eagerly anticipate its next creation.

SENSITIVE!! – CONTENTS ABOVE SNIFFED FROM REEF DATACOMS – SENSITIVE!!

Cf. reports #3209-3211-LUNA-HEL

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Ringer

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 73XK5V2PG1$AUN-326
REP #: 014-CRYPT-540
AGENT(S): CHA-319
SUBJ: Latest Shimizu paper

1. Everybody's favorite conspiracy theorist is publishing again. Here's an excerpt from his latest paper—incomplete, I'm afraid, but you try for hi-def OCR at 500m during a rainstorm and tell me how you do.

2. ...remain major unanswered questions about the failure of the City's information, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) network to detect the approaching Red Legion fleet.

It is by now well accepted that the Red Legion's sophistication in military affairs vastly exceeded our own. Although Ghaul's campaign made no real provision for continued resistance after the Traveler was contained and the Almighty moved into firing position, his opening gambit achieved a level of strategic surprise that would be the envy of any ancient general. Psion electronic warfare units compromised the City's sensor perimeters and suppressed our satellite early warning systems (so thoroughly that they even maintained their failsafe signals until the last possible moment). An extraordinary deception program in the Prison of Elders, combined with relativistic projectile strikes against key sensors, blinded the Reef to a simultaneous attack.

But how did the Red Legion escape the notice of the entire scattered Dead Orbit fleet? It would be politically unwise to suggest that the Arachs withheld information so their precious ships would be spared a losing battle... and indeed, the integrity of that same fleet proved invaluable in the counterattack and the city's reconstruction. It would be even more politically incendiary to suggest that the Future War Cult viewed the City's brief occupation as politically useful (or, more charitably, as a necessary step towards some desirable future timeline).

But it is impossible not to ask: how did the same Guardians who foresaw Oryx in prophecy (and in captured enemy material) fail to anticipate and take measures against the Red Legion attack? Is there something intrinsically more secular, and thus unforeseeable, about the Cabal? Do they practice superior information security to the Hive—unlikely, given the interception of a Cabal distress signal in the wake of the Taken War?

Did some agency, henceforth unknown, act to conceal Ghaul's approach from our protectors? One that shared with Ghaul some central motive—whether the destruction of the Guardians, the capture of the Traveler, or the apprehension by force of the abilities we call the Light?

If such an agency exists, capable of such totality and subtlety in its action, how has it concealed itself from us?

3. If I didn't know better, I'd say we had a leak. Hassan's a real ringer. Hope he gets rezzed as one of us when he dies.

4. With all the usual regret, I'm going to forward a recommendation to the Cryptarchs to continue rejecting his submissions from legitimate publications. If anyone disagrees, just give a shout.

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Forgeries

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 73XK5V2PG1$AUN-326
REP #: 198-VESTA-DC
AGENT(S): FEN-092
SUBJ: Re: possible forgeries

1. As you all know, an unknown sender delivered six messages to VIP #2014. These missives were sent via Glimmer, using a simple encryption scheme that even a 55-30 unit Frame could have easily cracked. #2014's Ghost took immediate notice of these messages and quietly forwarded them on to IKO-006, who then distributed them back to us. Cf. reports #167-173-VESTA-DC for full transcripts.

2. In these messages, the sender briefly purports to be none other than one ERI-223, providing fanciful details regarding her origins as a human woman who grew up in an apparent settlement of Old Russia known as St. Petersburg. None of this account sat well with anyone who actually knows ERI-223—not simply because none of her close confederates had any firsthand knowledge or belief that she knew of her pre-Guardian origins, but also because she is still active in the field and has personally denied sending these messages. That being said, in accordance with our rigor for skeptical inquiry, this agent was dispatched in pursuit of hard evidence to the contrary.

3. I submit to you now photographic and video evidence recovered from civilian family albums, historical archives, and extant Ghost recordings originally captured in the Last City. Behold, ERI-223: a child of the Last City, born to civilian parents in a mortal-Guardian integrated neighborhood. Behold, too, tiny VIP #1786—though he is almost more unbelievable than ERI-223, if you look at his smile.

Of the photos, original digital files are unavailable, but radiocarbon dating clearly identifies the earliest prints as more than three hundred years old. This is consistent with the timestamps of footage provided by volunteer Ghosts who were present during the same period. As to whether the child we believe to be ERI-223 is indeed ERI-223, please see the second compressed folder attached to this report for full double-blind forensics.

4. In regards to the other personality presented in the six messages: Having consulted with AI-COM/RSPN and AI-COM/XBLK, both have attested that they have no record of any so-called craftmind designated Medusa. This does not discount the possibility that such a craftmind may have existed, but in light of the fact that someone was impersonating our former colleague, it follows that someone may have credibly invented a craftmind as well. We will continue to scour our records for any evidence to the contrary.

5. Like many of those reading, this agent has a strong recommendation about the identity of the sender, but it is beyond the scope of this report. Cf. reports #024-VESTA-DC, 025-VESTA-DC, #026-VESTA-DC, #086-VESTA-DC, #001-034-HIVE-SAV, and #001-005-HIVE-DUL.

6. Given the importance of #2014's contributions to our defense efforts as well as the recent downfall of the Awoken prince, this agent is deeply troubled by the idea that a malicious entity might seek to sway or confuse #2014 through the context of trusted allies. #2014's Ghost made brief mention of some kind of waking hallucination in one of its messages. Have we reached out to corroborate that report or provide additional counsel?

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Passivity

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 73XK5V2PG1$AUN-326
REP #: 059-CABAL-LEV
AGENT(S): TRU-135
SUBJ: Sitrep

1. Live-fire training exercises continue at the active incursion site on the Leviathan. No further RAID class operations have been documented since the unauthorized intervention against VIP #4044 at the explicit invitation of VIP #3801. This agent still believes that the Vanguard should institute stronger measures to prevent rogue teams from carelessly rushing to the aid of enemy VIPs – particularly given #3801's documented history of solicitous behavior and the tendency of our warriors to rush slack-jawed toward free gifts. #4044 could have been a useful catspaw in the destruction of #3801. We should not have intervened.

2. Related to the above, #3801's aggressive propaganda campaign appears to have been successful. Despite #3801's recent inactivity, sentiment polls captured in the Tower at regular intervals over the last several months indicate that he has successfully swayed a significant percentage of the Red War cohort to believe that he may be a potential ally. Given our history with the Cabal as well as the events of the Red War itself, this is shocking and perhaps attributable to a case of mass traumatic bonding.

It is my strong recommendation that the Vanguard pursue a reeducation curriculum before #3801 invites any Guardians of the City to defect to his service, a possibility which we have documented in multiple previous reports.

3. Nessus continues to remain stable, likely due to Vex machinoforming.

4. The Awoken armada continues regular shows of force. The Leviathan remains non-hostile.

5. Our agents continue to closely monitor inbound and outbound traffic to and from the Leviathan. As yet, we have not been able to observe any non-Guardian transport, providing additional evidence for the fact that the ship is either a self-contained ecosystem which has no paracausal exits or that it possesses some kind of internal stargate network by which occupants may invisibly enter and exit. As the Cabal have no documented history of such stargates, we are inclined to believe the former.

6. In summary, there is no real news. However, this agent is inclined to regard this conspicuous passivity with suspicion rather than relief, and would urge Vanguard leadership to consider exploratory excursions in coming months.

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Fragment

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 73XK5V2PG1$AUN-326
REP #: 12059-INCID-LUN
AGENT(S): FEN-092
SUBJ: Affidavit regarding Incident #12059

1. Last week, I was deployed by IKO-006 for routine surveillance of the quarantined zone outside the Hellmouth. Hive populations remain low and grow ever lower thanks to the efforts of a small contingent of veteran Guardians who have made their homes on Luna.

2. Around 1900 hours yesterday afternoon, I began to experience a crushing headache and excused myself from patrol to recuperate. Though I originally intended to lay down for a nap, I fell asleep instead, and experienced multiple vivid dreams over the next 11.5 hours. In all of these dreams, I was trying to catch up with agent ERI-223 in a crowd. She was always out of reach, whether by 200 m or 20 m. I had the sense that I needed to speak to her.

3. When I woke, I found that my headache had not improved. I prepared my armor and exited my bivouac to find a single stationary Thrall crouched nearby. It stood as I approached, but made no motion to attack me. I fired one shot, killing it immediately. Upon stepping forward to examine its corpse, I saw a solid black fragment of an unknown material embedded in its chest cavity. The fragment resembled a flake or a shard of some larger object, not dissimilar to a high-gain photovoltaic panel.

4. I requested that my Ghost perform a standard material analysis of the fragment but neither one of us could confidently identify its qualities or provenance; that analysis is attached to this report as Analysis #1.

5. I requested that my Ghost attempt to contain and transmat the fragment for quarantine on my jumpship. He was unable to establish a Light link with the object, describing the fragment as "slippery" and "tiring" to try to catch hold of.

6. I used the barrel of my sniper rifle to touch and then work the fragment out of the Thrall's corpse. Using my rifle, I turned the fragment over and examined it from multiple angles. I requested that my Ghost run another deep scan of the object; that analysis is attached to this report as Analysis #2.

7. We concluded that the material seemed to be inert and that it did not seem to be part of any complex device or mechanism.

8. At this point, I broke protocol and did not request additional backup. Instead, I picked up the fragment by hand and immediately experienced a vivid hallucination: I stood over VIP #0704's  shoulder as she dressed a seven-inch gash on agent ERI-223's thigh. Both #0704 and ERI-223 were dressed for combat. Hundreds of fragments of the unknown material hung in the air around us, apparent shrapnel from the wreckage of a nearby ship of unrecognizable make and model. ERI-223 looked directly toward me and said, "Патетическая."

9. The duration of the hallucination was approximately seven seconds. At its conclusion, my headache disappeared. My Ghost and I held our position for the next thirty minutes, then collected the body of the Thrall and the fragment for transportation. I delivered myself and my cargo to quarantine and experienced no further mental disturbances while detained.

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Lease

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 73XK5V2PG1$AUN-326
REP #: 045-VIP-1315
AGENT(S): IKO-006
SUBJ: Leased space in the Annex

1. After several months of negotiation, the Vanguard has agreed to allow VIP #1315 to formally lease an unused warehouse space in the Annex of the new Tower. To be clear, this was the Vanguard's proposal, not his. Despite the many skeptics who have good questions about the social risk inherent in providing #1315 with a more legitimate space, we feel that any disruption of morale or Tower culture will be short-term and minimal. Likewise, we feel that he does not present any present danger to Tower or City inhabitants. We continue to work alongside Lord Shaxx to assess the long-term strategic value of #1315's Gambit.
I recognize that this decision will be unpopular with certain agents who have taken it upon themselves to investigate #1315's history and moral character.

Please remember that I sidelined myself from active duty in order to personally surveil his activities in the Tower, and that I kept guard outside his former place of business since his arrival. It is my belief that his presence will do more good than ill, and that the Tower has long stunted its own growth through narrow-minded fear and reactive exile of dissidents. We should endeavor to remain sharp skeptics of philosophies which differ from our own, but we should always be willing to hear and consider these philosophies.

Further: any concerned members of the Praxic Order should recall that the Vanguard holds jurisdiction over their actions, and that the exile of dissident philosophers is very different from the exile of rogue operators.

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Potential

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 73XK5V2PG1$AUN-326
REP #: 053-VIP-1315
AGENT(S): AUN-326
SUBJ: Psych eval

1. THIS DATA OBTAINED FROM SURVEILLANCE DEVICES AT 1315-HOME2.

2. In previous reports, I stated that it was my belief that #1315 had invoked some kind of paracausal event enabling the resurrection and return of enemy VIP #2015. This belief was predicated upon reports of creatures resembling the infamous "Echoes of Oryx" that Guardian forces engaged and destroyed en masse during the Taken War (cf. Ghost-stream footage here: CATHEDRAL.OF.DUSK.DREADNAUGHT).

This has proven false. Spectral analysis from multiple Ghosts participating undercover in Prime and Reckoning confirms that the impossible world at the heart of "the haul" is located in unknown space. (Cf. REP #001-012-PARAC-NINE.) Further, these Primevals differ in their literal elemental composition: low SNC, high ambient ΛCDM. #1315 has harnessed his "banks" to what appears to be an engine of pure potential. He no longer needs to pilfer the Ascendant Plane of Primevals, the oldest Taken in residence. He can create Primeval-likes from the energy of "the haul" and sheer force of will. As to the apparent presence of #2015, it is a falsehood. My handlers in the Praxic Order surmise simply: the shape of Oryx was the scariest Hive he could think of. He's tenacious, but he has a small mind.

3. Highly recommend we assess #1315 for the influence of paracausal forces or entities. Since the conclusion of the joint Vanguard/Praxic investigation into his operations, the subject has become increasingly erratic. Beyond running his Gambit and Reckoning drills with the Guardian population, he has done nothing but hole up in the Annex. He has always exhibited the signs of stress related to prolonged solitude that are typical of all surviving Risen; this manifests in the subject in prolonged and rambling conversations with either himself or his as-yet-unseen Ghost. However, his musings have become less and less coherent over time. Late into the night, away from the Guardian cohorts, he yells at voices that our surveillance equipment has never picked up. He has spoken to himself about trips across vast, interstellar distances to realms no Guardian has ever described.

Again, he has not left the Annex in ages. One might say that I am overstepping even Praxic boundaries here, but I would say to them: the subject is free to leave any time.

4. Following the results of my investigation, the subject has ceased regular reports to Lord Shaxx. I'm sure both prefer it that way. #1315 has broken none of the Vanguard's decrees in that time, nor have any further Guardians perished on his watch in Gambit or Reckoning. He is still a facilitator to murder and a thief, but he has done nothing to warrant eviction, as I had hoped. The Vanguard obviously still needs him.

5. The following is a transcript of one of his late-night rambling sessions logged for evidence:

TYPE: PRAXIC SURVEILLANCE REPORT
PARTIES: One [1]. One[1] Guardian-type, Class N/A [u.1]
ASSOCIATIONS: Gambit, Drifter, Annex
[u.1:01] What now? What the hell is it you're trying to tell me?
[the hum of a generator]
[u.1:02] You showed me a universe with no Light. Dominated by the Dark. What are you arguing? Steadfastness in the Traveler's dogma? Ha ha. That's not obtuse enough for y'all.
[u.1:03] No, no. I don't think so. Because then you showed me a reality without shadows, of pure Light from every angle. Nowhere to hide. Everyone begging to die, like we did in the Dark Age. Light's no gift, but I already knew that. What else you got?
[a metallic clink echoes]
[u.1:04] Yeah. I know the coin doesn't lie. It's the only thing in this world I trust for real. But you know what? I control the coin. And I make my own fate. No one writes on this but me, you got that? You pencil-necked, phantom-assed geeks. Have some respect for people's stuff.
[a second metallic clink]
[u.1:05] I've refused the Traveler's dogma for generations. And I'll reject yours.
[a rush of static as the feed distorts from Light-based radiation]
[u.1:06] You can't boil my brain, brothers and sisters–I see you tryin'. But I'm already there.
[a fizzling crackle as the feed distorts from Light-based radiation]
[u.1:07] And if you think you have a handle on Orin? Well, you didn't know her like I did. You slip up just once? That girl will eat you alive. Nine steak sounds mighty tasty if you can find it, scrape it all together. Get a fire goin' that'll cook it. What a fire that would be. You wanted to see what made us tick? Maybe Drifter wants to see what makes you stop.
[a dull roar as the feed distorts from Light-based radiation]
[u.1:08] Yeah, boy. That's a threat.
[u.1:09] Hello?
[u.1:10] No, not you. I still need you. This week. Get back to work.
[u.1:11] What? Nothing...
[u.1:12] Still hungry...

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Message from Aunor I

CORMORANT-LEVEL ENCRYPTED MESSAGE FOLLOWS. AUDIO UNAVAILABLE.

My name is Aunor. I serve the Hidden and the Warlock Praxic Order. You and I have never met, but I hold you in high regard.

You've accomplished wonders for this City, and humanity owes you a debt it cannot repay. A marvel for one so young.

But, in true Guardian fashion, nothing you did for the City came from generosity.

I think you want what everyone with power wants: more.

The man called Drifter knows this. That man has done what past influencers could not: manipulate Guardians into dabbling with the dark.

And yet the Vanguard stands by in silence.

Commander Zavala and Ikora Rey know who he is and everything he stands for.

They still let him bring his Gambit into the system. What's more, they have forbidden the Praxic Order from interfering.

It's against everything the Praxics stand for. We won't abide it, and we're looking into his activities, building a case against him even the Vanguard can't ignore.

Do me a favor. From one Guardian of this City to another.

You're free to keep your business with him. Just give me the chance to convince you the Drifter's not to be trusted.

<|endoftext|>

Message from Aunor II

CORMORANT-LEVEL ENCRYPTED MESSAGE FOLLOWS. AUDIO UNAVAILABLE.

Since its inception, the Vanguard has served as the City's greatest deterrent against total annihilation of humankind. And for an Age, it succeeded without question.

But today's Vanguard has never faced a threat like the Drifter. This man with no name and no verified history in the City's files has brought an ideological war to our doorstep. He's a greater threat than any Hive god or Vex Mind because I can't walk down to the Annex with a shotgun and end him.

The Vanguard won't allow it. They see a rogue element they can control.

I see a criminal in a place of power.

The Praxic Order has been surveilling Vanguard activities: Guardians like you are abandoning frontline duties so they can run rampant in the Drifter's Gambit.

Every Mote of Dark they drop in his hands means another moment that the paracausal phenomenon in the Dreaming City is left unchecked. That our enemies in Deadzones across the Earth push our borders. In the absence of Light, even the Hellmouth on the Moon is stirring.

This cannot last. Ontological and genocidal threats aside, Gambit encourages the use of Darkness to fight Darkness... and other Guardians.

Since the City's foundation, the Praxic Order has existed to keep Darkness and other banned assets out of the hands of City Guardians. Despite our best efforts, pieces like the Red Death, Crimson... and certain Weapons of Sorrow... continue to find their way into City arsenals. But even Guardian killers like those are nothing compared to the ideological threat of Gambit. Gambit leads to Darkness.

And Darkness is the Hive on the Moon, tearing our kind to pieces in the Great Disaster. The Darkness is the Red War, the tower-fall—when the Cabal silenced the Traveler and killed thousands of the last humans on Earth in a single day. The Darkness is the Vex erasing our allies from existence, from memory itself. The Darkness is one man, with the power to deal final death in his fist. The Darkness was the Collapse of the Golden Age.

The Darkness is peace by annihilation in myriad ways.

As a sword of the Praxic Order, it is my duty to seek out those who would consort with or study the Darkness as a religious or paracausal entity. Participating in Gambit is problematic, but Guardians will go to where the guns are. If the Order wants to win this, the Drifter must fall. If I can get solid evidence that bastard is causing demonstrable harm, the Praxic Order will descend on him like a second sun.

I know the Drifter has your ear, but consider this:

There's more to being a Guardian of the City than power.

<|endoftext|>

Message from Aunor III

CORMORANT-LEVEL ENCRYPTED MESSAGE FOLLOWS. AUDIO UNAVAILABLE.

[The transcript has been bundled alongside the shattered remains of a Ghost.]

This Ghost belonged to a renegade Guardian, recently deceased in a shootout with Praxic elements in the City.

His Guardian, an equally dead Titan, went by another title:

Dredgen.

This pair were ideological followers of Dredgen Yor.

No reason for veterans of the Red War to brush up on late Dark Age history, so in case you haven't heard: Yor was among the first of our kind to kill another with the heretical use of Darkness. Even a Guardian can't come back from that.

All those who used his name in recent history belonged to an outlaw group called the Shadows of Yor. No two of them can agree on Yor's true ideology, but all strive to consort with the Darkness for power. According to the testimony of his former fireteams, Drifter was one of them. And might still be.

The group hasn't made an appearance in a long time. There are rumors of new "Dredgens" taking up the mantle at the behest of the Drifter. All relatively young Guardians: the Old Russian cohort or the Red War. Not the old blood of the original group.

You might be one of them. Or soon could be.

Just know that I've confirmed some, perhaps all, of the old blood are back in town. The Ghost you hold in your hand belonged to one of them.

And I would not be surprised if the renegade who hunts the Shadows, the Hunter who forged the Golden Gun itself, was close behind.

I don't know why the Shadows have returned, but there are possibilities:

To Drifter's chagrin I'm sure, it's no secret City Guardians are playing with Darkness in the form of Gambit. Maybe the Shadows want to actively recruit. They've tried and failed in the past to put the use of Darkness into Guardian arsenals.

But the Drifter and the Shadows could be at odds. The man is a loner and a cheat, building as many bridges as he burns in the Guardian community. He has true allegiance to nothing and no one but himself. It's possible he's gathering Gambit regulars to defend himself from his own kind.

Or the Dredgens are here to help their ally, the Drifter, with the operation of Gambit or some new, unknown goal.

I share all this with you hoping for your confidence. The Drifter is not to be trusted. Involve yourself with him and the Dredgens at your own risk. Even if you carry their name, it's not too late to make the right choice.

Don't end up like the Ghost in your hand. He did not die well.

<|endoftext|>

Message from Aunor IV

The Drifter's playing you. Gambit Prime isn't a get-rich-quick scheme, it's an experiment. And he's luring all of you from the Tower as test rats.

Until today, the heads of my Order believed the Drifter was attempting to craft a throne world, much like the Scorned Baron Hiraks did. Off the death of the Hunter Vanguard.

It surprised me, but we've found no evidence in or around the City that the Drifter's ever actually killed anyone (though there could be a mass grave aboard that destitute thing he calls a ship).

Your excursion today corroborated the stories of multiple Guardians still loyal to the Vanguard: the Drifter's haul originates from the clandestine power known only as the Nine.

The Warlock orders have only trivial information on these beings, but it would seem the Drifter has been networking beyond forces of Light and Dark. Before him, the Awoken Queen was their only known associate.

As of this moment, I hope I can trust you to keep your eyes open and your reports honest. As one of Drifter's Gambit Prime candidates, you are among the first Guardians to see what that bastard is doing.

You're the Vanguard's eyes and ears in this. I hope you do right by them.

<|endoftext|>

Message from Aunor V

TYPE: VANGUARD CASUALTY REPORT
PARTIES: Two [2]. One[1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.1]; One[1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Emerald Coast; Cathedral of Scars; Legion's Folly; Kell's Grave; "The Drifter"; Gambit; Gambit Prime
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/
[u.1:01] What do you have? Arcite's the only one watching up there.
[u.2:01] European Dead Zone, Earth: three Guardian fatalities.
[u.2:02] Dreaming City, the Reef: two Guardian fatalities.
[u.2:03] Nessus, Unstable Centaur: one Guardian fatality.
[u.2:04] Tangled Shore, the Reef: three Guardian fatalities.
[u.1:02] …I know.
[a sudden distortion in the feed from Light-based radiation]
[u.1:03] You missed. And you ruined my wall.
[u.2:05] If I wanted to hit you, you'd look like that wall. What happened to stepping on him the second something went wrong?
[u.1:04] Those Guardians knew the risks. We take them every time we raid the outer edges or run a strike. Gambit's the same. These were not "Thorn" incidents. In each case, non-Guardian hostiles caught Ghosts unprepared. The Crucible's for them as much as us.
[u.2:06] He doesn't watch those arenas like you do. He's reckless.
[u.1:05] We need him. It's working.
[u.2:07] If we lose another Guardian, he's out. Did you forget how many of us died that first night of the war?
[u.1:06] I buried all the ones I could find before the dawn.
[u.2:08] How about we stop burying Guardians altogether? Get him in line. Or I'll kill him and his Ghost myself.
//END TRANSCRIPT

CORMORANT-ENCRYPTED MESSAGE FOLLOWS. AUDIO UNAVAILABLE.

I stole that transcript myself. Thought you should see it.

Your friends are dying on the Drifter's watch. How long before it's you?

The Order is in a state of paralysis. Half of us want to restrain the Ghosts of the Vanguard and the Drifter all at once, and have them face Praxic justice. But that would shatter the peace in the City, irreparably.

Meanwhile, the Shadows of Yor continue to have a presence in this City. And no Golden Gun in sight to contain them. The Man must be busy.

It seems the fate of this town rests on your shoulders once again. The choices you make in the coming weeks could affect more lives than any bullet you've ever fired. Consider that.

And consider this:

The Drifter is polluting minds, driving Guardians away from what he nebulously calls the "Traveler's dogma." He's turned a lot of minds onto the idea that Darkness is a tool worth using.

This City was built on a foundation of fighting the Darkness and everything it stands for: the erasure of order, individual empowerment over the common good. The Hive and the Taken live to serve their gods. The Traveler empowers humanity to live.

He says otherwise, but the Drifter is not above systems. That armor he's offering you in his so-called "Reckoning" represents a choice in a system of his making. He's just here to disrupt the natural order for personal gain, and he doesn't care who dies for it.

The Vanguard is relying on you more than ever. Against the Drifter. Against themselves.

You'll know what to do.

I have Dredgens to hunt.

<|endoftext|>

Message to Aunor

You compose an encrypted message to Aunor of the Praxic Order. Along with a brief statement of solidarity, the message contains transcripts of your conversations with the Drifter, as well as data packages detailing Drifter's "Gambit Prime" and "Reckoning" operations.

Your Ghost has also provided specifications for the modified Gambit bank you saw while ...within? ...aboard? "the Haul," and included engram prints of the ontological armor you forged at the Drifter's instruction.

The Vanguard and the Hidden will want to know that Drifter's material resources are expanding in scope: from Light and Dark to the cold unknown of the impossible world he's found—or created—within the Haul. Ghost's spectral analysis confirms that it's unlike anything you've encountered in the Ascendant Plane. But the readings reminded him of the Third Spire, the trial grounds of the beings known as the Nine.

You don't know what the future brings, but you know you will meet it with a clean conscience.

<|endoftext|>

Message from Aunor VI

CORMORANT-LEVEL ENCRYPTED MESSAGE FOLLOWS. AUDIO UNAVAILABLE.

This is stellar casework.

And I'm glad you stayed the course. Having a hero of the Red War go rogue and side with the Drifter is not a scenario I wanted to consider.

You've provided critical information on the Drifter's operation, but I need to know who his facilitators in this system are. Someone's providing him with raw materials to build his gear, and I know his accounts with the City don't have the kind of Glimmer to pay. Vanguard territory's been flooded with rogues since Gambit became the Tower's favorite pastime, so it could be anyone.

My Ghost made some microphones for you, infused with Praxic wards. We've put them through rigorous durability testing.

Anything short of the impact point on a Sunbreaker's hammer, and these things will keep recording.

Bug the Drifter's hovel in the Annex and find out who's supplying him. I'm off to the lower boroughs of the City to see if I can head off one of Drifter's jobs in person.

Praxic Flame be with you.

<|endoftext|>

Message from Aunor VII

CORMORANT-LEVEL ENCRYPTED MESSAGE FOLLOWS. AUDIO UNAVAILABLE.

I got the feed from your Ghost.

Head to Titan if you're not halfway there already. Drifter and the Spider have worked together on occasion. But it can't benefit Spider to let the Drifter expand his influence in the system. So why help him? I wonder if the Shadows of Yor are involved—maybe pressure on the Reef at Drifter's benefit?

Local Hunter dens are reporting renegade incidents across the Shore. I haven't been out there since Cayde died. Gambit's been generating a lot of paperwork for me.

I'll check it out.

<|endoftext|>

Message from Aunor VIII

CORMORANT-LEVEL ENCRYPTED MESSAGE FOLLOWS. AUDIO UNAVAILABLE.

Drifter wants a bullet to the head? If not for the Vanguard decree, I'd oblige tonight.

Your trip to Titan let me round up a couple wannabe Dredgens out on the Tangled Shore. No casualties, civilian or Guardian. And a half dozen perps and their Ghosts restrained. Drifter was paying them to transport Motes to the Shore.

If Motes of Dark stay in Gambit, there's nothing I can do. Vanguard decree means Drifter is free and clear. As soon as I see anyone carry Motes outside that context, going to anyone but our rat in green? Their Light belongs to me.

Those six will face Praxic justice. Perhaps exile. We haven't had to lock anyone up in decades.

If the Vanguard thinks the Drifter hasn't changed things, I can't help them. And we'll continue to clean up their messes.

You're doing good work. Praxic work. If you're going to continue, I need you to keep attending Drifter's games. You're my eyes. He'll allow it. The man's desperate. Probably has been his whole life.

Meanwhile, I'm looking into the Nine again. The Haul was enough impetus, but that voice you heard? That was their Emissary. I don't know much about her, but she's wrapped up in this mess somehow.

<|endoftext|>

Surveillance Transcript

TYPE: Survelliance Transcript
PARTIES: Two [2]. One Guardian-type, Class Multi [u.1]. One Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Drifter, the; Derelict, the; Dark Ages; possible explosives link
//AUDIO STORED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.2:0.1] You finish your project?
[u.1:0.1] Yes, ma'am. Planted 'em all this morning.
[u.2:0.2] Tss.
[u.1:0.2] Don't look at me like that. Why you lookin' at me like that?
[u.2:0.3] There are simpler ways—
[u.1:0.3] Not everything's got to be simple, darlin'.
[u.2:0.4] I think you're a coward. Just look 'em in the eye when you do it.
[u.1:0.4] Heh. And if it goes wrong?
[u.2:0.5] Then it goes wrong! Blows up in your face. Who cares! You're immortal. Not like it's gonna kill you.
[u.1:0.5] This is some real Titan braggadocio right here. You know, back in the Dark Ages—
[u.2:0.6] "There were no classes," blah blah "dogma" blah blah. Save it for the rookies. You get tired of this City or your bomb shelter up in the Derelict, the frontier's always waitin'.
[u.1:0.6] It surely is, sister. It surely is.

//KEYWORD ANALYSIS//
planted them = to plant a seed, an idea, a bomb
look them in the eye when you do it = to behave honestly, to perform an act of violence
blows up in your face = to make a mistake, to trigger an explosion
bomb shelter = a structure designed to provide protection against the explosion of a bomb

//CONCLUSION//
No direct threat detected, but consistent use of explosives metaphor merits field investigation.

<|endoftext|>

Message from Aunor IX

CORMORANT-LEVEL ENCRYPTED MESSAGE FOLLOWS. AUDIO UNAVAILABLE.

Your Ghost passed along another couple of transcripts. Broke into the Derelict, did you? You've got good instincts.

Seems to me that the Drifter's picked himself a protégé. Probably another young war hero, like you. If he's writing down his "lessons," maybe he'll write down the one scrap of truth that we need to nail him to the wall. Chase the rest of those "tapes."

In the meantime, I followed up with my colleagues about the Nine. Used to be that every couple years or so, somebody would get to talking to Xûr, then they'd decide that they were going to be the great mind to crack the mystery of the Nine. Go off to find them. Bunch of Cryptarchs, mostly. A couple Guardians. Then the Light went out during the Red War, and one last ambitious mind went out in search of providence: a Sunbreaker by the name of Orin.

She came back as the Emissary. Set up the Trials, said the Nine were standing ready to judge the worthiest among us—for what, we don't know. Seems they like strong warriors. The disappearances have stopped since then. I should note here that a couple people called those disappearances "abductions."

Word of advice? Try to keep emotional language out of your reports.

To the knowledge of the Praxic Order, the Nine aren't allies of the Darkness. We've got solid intel from Reef spies that the Awoken Queen's working with them now beyond the system. Could be that they're up to no good, but—whatever's out there is apparently more important than all that suffering in the Dreaming City, and every Corsair I've talked to believes that through and through. I believe their belief. The Awoken have too much self-respect to live under a bad leader. Bad's different than popular, of course.

Anyway, I don't think the Nine or their Emissary intend to harm you—not right now, at least. It'd be helpful if we knew what they wanted with Drifter, but... That investigation is up to you. If you pursue it and you get a whiff of trouble, you tell me.

Just remember the rest of us when you're out there changing the fabric of spacetime, or whatever the hell it is they do.

<|endoftext|>

Message from Aunor X

CORMORANT-LEVEL ENCRYPTED MESSAGE FOLLOWS. AUDIO UNAVAILABLE.

Thank your Ghost for me. The analytical work you've both done is worthy of induction to the Praxic Order. It's too bad the Vanguard keeps you so busy.

This is the end of our investigation.

Those tapes you found contain the scraps of truth that we've been hunting all this time. It's just not the truth that I was expecting—I've been looking at that man expecting a dangerous criminal mind. Living, breathing, evil the likes of Dredgen Yor, and instead, I got... What. Tragedy? Pathos?

Well.

He's pathetic, all right.

I've made my final report to the Order, and I am comfortable with the decree they've issued: the Drifter shall remain under close watch, but he presents no direct threat for as long as he cooperates with the Vanguard and Lord Shaxx. This brings us into consensus with the Vanguard's standing judgment.

The Shadows of Yor that Gambit conned out of hiding have been thugs with guns and Ghosts, mostly. They have less bite than the Dredgens of yore. Little wonder Shin Malphur didn't show up. These fools aren't worth his time.

I'm trying to take this as a lesson in the dangers of presumption, but in my defense, the Drifter smelled like a rat. Still does.

I'll see you out in the field. I've got paperwork to file.

<|endoftext|>

The Salt Mines

In a campsite on a cliff above the salt mines of Trostland, a man with a Golden Gun held two Guardians hostage. Behind them, an ashen silhouette smoldered on the cliffside.

"I gave you every chance," said the man with the Golden Gun. "Any last words?"

One hostage lifted his head and took a breath. Before he could speak, his skull erupted in a bloom of Arc Light. A Void arrow lanced through the air and lodged in the throat of the second hostage. He slumped over, falling against his dead companion.

The man turned to look in the direction of the shots. The Golden Gun blazed bright in his fist.

The Ghosts of the dead Guardians materialized to resurrect their fallen charges—but were cut short as two restraining bands whistled through the trees and snapped across their frames.

The Ghosts fell, enervated by Arc pulses flowing from their restraints.

Loose pebbles murmured down the cliffside as six Warlocks dressed in black dusters entered the camp single-file. They all carried Quitclaim shotguns.

The man did not move.

The woman leading the Warlocks stepped closer to the man. She held out a Cormorant Seal, fearless in the light of his ever-burning Gun. "Aunor. Praxic Order."

"You're interrupting important work," he said.

"Stole the words right out of my mouth," she replied. "These Ghosts are coming with us. No more killing. Your reputation won't protect you."

"Your jurisdiction ends in the City," came the reply. "These two are my problem to solve."

Aunor glowered. "They're third-degree offenders. Consorting with the Darkness on a material level only, collecting and concealing illegal artifacts. We'll rehabilitate and reeducate them if we need to."

"And they will continue behind your backs. They're already addicted. Power corrupts."

"You're costing us Ghosts—means to fight enemies of humanity. These Guardians represent more than potential Dredgens—"

"Men like this will destroy you from within."

"Based on the sins of one man?"

"My struggle is older than yours, Warlock Aunor, and it will be here when your Praxic laws are forgotten and the Last City is dust."

"You, and Shaxx, and the Vanguard, and all the deal-makers are going to get the City killed."

The man traded his Golden Gun from one hand to another and sighed. Aunor racked the Quitclaim. Her Warlocks followed her lead.

The man stood. "Shaxx wouldn't like it if you all came home in pieces. Take them. I'll be watching. They so much as breathe wrong and they're mine."

He walked into the forest, fist still aflame. The campsite fell to darkness as he disappeared.

"Secure the Ghosts," Aunor ordered her team, holstering her weapon to begin a thorough sweep of the site.

<|endoftext|>

District 125

The Shadows had her Ghost. They had somehow gotten their hands on restraint tech—Praxic tech.

She'd have to follow up on that some time. If she lived.

No Man with a Golden Gun. No fireteam. No backup.

She had been chasing a lead on a group of new-blood Dredgens, taking her Sparrow over Veridian Bridge to a local Gensym lab. But the Shadows were waiting for her.

From a hidden vantage point on an overpass above, a single rocket from a shoulder-mounted launcher had obliterated the road in front of her. She'd been thrown straight off her machine.

In that split second, she saw Bahaghari had tried to catch her in a beam of Light, but with a telltale whistle and snap, a restraining band had silenced her Ghost. She was falling by then.

She leaned into the roaring wind, transitioned her fall into a dive. The impact and temperature of the water shocked and chilled her to the bone as debris rained into the lake around her.

She started the long swim toward shore, toward a road she knew would take her to the overpass.

**

She pulled up onto the overpass on a hijacked Pike and looked down at the smoldering wreckage of the bridge where she had fallen an hour ago. Bahaghari was nowhere in sight, but her helmet's visor picked up an echo of Void discharge from a sniper's vantage. It was consistent with the launch pattern of a shoulder-mounted Countess SA/2.

She patched it back to Drifter, and in return, he gave her the coordinates of three possible Shadow safehouses in the area. Without Bahaghari, she had to input them manually to her tracker HUD.

She selected the farthest one from her position and gunned the Pike.

**

By the time she pulled up to an abandoned warehouse in District 125, the Shadows had already ransomed her Ghost on several City bands. They wanted clearance to take their jumpships out of the system by midnight. Without clearance, they'd kill Bahaghari.

The Vanguard ignored the missive entirely. Renegades were not to be negotiated with. Not even Osiris himself. And these Shadows were no Osiris.

The maglev train coming from Core East roared on a rail above. The next train would arrive at midnight.

She could see a light on the top floor of the rust-red building, and the silhouettes of several people.

"I'm not on that floor," Bahaghari said. Aunor started.

"How—"

"I hacked the restraint. It's Praxic tech. We've got a renegade in the Order."

"Worry about that later. You said you're not on the top floor?"

"No. The basement. Under the street. Building's empty except for us. Don't even think about a breach, you'll need a team. Or a Gjallarhorn."

"Don't have either, Bighari."

"Don't even think about it."

"I didn't say anything."

"You never call me that unless you're about to do something stupid."

**

She had never driven a maglev train before. She liked the feel of power in the front car, watching the world hurtle past.

The train was empty. She had ordered all the passengers and the conductor off before she'd requisitioned it. You could convince people to do almost anything with a Cormorant Seal.

The turn came rushing up, and she keyed a control on her wrist.

A series of proximity mines on the rail and the barrier that supported it exploded, and the train hurtled forward through the smoke and fire—

Down onto a rust-red warehouse building far below.

**

She could see everything Bahaghari could see, even in death.

For those inside the building, it was like the world was ending.

But her Ghost was free, heading straight for the front car of the train that had impaled the upper floor of the warehouse. A pair of injured Shadows, the only survivors, were right behind her as she came up to Aunor's slumped body, her eye blazing with Light.

Aunor emerged from a radiant column and ducked under the bleeding Shadow's haymaker, slamming a blazing palm into his gut. She burned straight through him and rolled forward on the momentum, under a thundering shot from the second Shadow's hand cannon.

She transitioned the roll into a stiff sidekick from the ground, shattering the man's unarmored knee. She mounted him as he fell and bludgeoned him unconscious with a rain of burning elbows.

Bahaghari came up behind her. "There are three more bodies... somewhere under this train. What now?"

Aunor stood up, covered in blood and ash.

"We take their Ghosts. Alert the Vanguard. We have five renegades in custody."

Aunor found her duster in the train cab, tattered and badly burnt. She put it on, clasped her Cormorant Seal in place, and sat next to the bodies, waiting for her prisoners' Ghosts to materialize.

Her radio clicked.

"No casualties. You did well," Ikora said.

"Are you speaking as the head of the Warlocks or the head of the Hidden?" Aunor returned.

"As your friend. You slipped, but you saved it. Zavala and I appreciate your help in this. It's imperative—"

"That Drifter and Gambit continue, yes."

"Aunor."

"Yes."

"Are we good? We're asking a lot of you."

"I don't ever want your job. And the City needs that rat man's connections and his means. If he can bring Orin back to us..."

"Mm. Let's talk more in the morning."

She looked out the viewport at the burning train rail above, and the ruins of the warehouse around her.

She supposed this was her life now.

<|endoftext|>

Civilian Atrium South

Drifter rounded a corner in the Bazaar, and grabbed a cloth hanging from one of the stalls.

He ducked a gate, passing through a little-used doorway into a civilian corridor. As he walked, he wrapped the cloth around himself, covering his head and hiding his face. He changed his gait and his posture by degrees as he walked: moving a little slower, hunching a little lower. When he emerged into the next atrium, it was as though he had aged by sixty years.

Spotting a group of elders basking in the sun, he shuffled over to sit down as one of them.

"You new here?" one of them rasped.

"Always feels like it," he replied in a reedy lilt.

"I know what you mean," the elder said, staring at a squad of passing Titans whose armor reflected the sky. "They always stay the same," he gestured at them. "Everything around them changes on their whims. For good or ill."

"You're not wrong." It wasn't what he had meant. Once traffic died down, he could head straight for the Annex. No Guardians to pester him about rules or payout changes to Gambit.

He hated going out there with the Lights. Their earnestness pissed him off. He only did it 'cuz he had to eat. What he loved about Gambit was one thing, and one thing only: delectable Motes of Dark.

The bench creaked as someone sat down beside him. He didn't bother to look up. They'd go away eventually.

"Turns out your info was solid," a voice said. "To my surprise."

He turned to look, and saw a woman: brown-skinned, crooked-nosed, with intelligent eyes and a hard stare. She wore a black duster, and light armor underneath. A Warlock. He didn't know her. "You've mistaken me, my dear," he quavered.

She handed him an intricately designed slate about the size of a Titan's fist. A Cormorant Seal.

"The info you sold us on the Shadows was solid," she repeated. "Are you switching sides?"

He blinked. No use pretending. He dropped the act, sitting straighter. "I'm on no side but my own. Are they alive?"

The elders to his right frowned and began talking lowly amongst themselves.

"All but one. We couldn't get there before our mutual friend started his work."

 "Those three were idiots. Chasing legends. No danger to anyone but themselves."

"I don't think you have a good gauge for that. But they're in custody now."

"If you're done, I'd like to spend more quality time with my blanket and these crusty fellows."

"We listened to your protégé's tapes," she said.

"You bastards," he said, with no fire in it.

"The Vanguard think they can use you," she said.

"And what do you think?"

"You're a criminal not to be trusted. But... Orin gave you a chance."

He turned to look at her.

"And I think you think you can bring her back," she continued. He said nothing, but he didn't look away, either.

Aunor stood up. "As you were."

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Fragment: Gunnvor's Ghost

TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY RECORD]
PARTIES: Variable, approx. [~850]. One [1] Hive, God-type, designate Crota; Forty-seven [47] Guardian-type, Class Hunter; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan, designate Gunnvor [AKA Gunnvor, the Dawncaller] [g]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan, designate Wei Ning; Twenty-two [22] Guardian-type, Class Titan, Order Firebreak; Thirty-four [34] Guardian-type, Class Titan, Order First Pillar; Seven [7] Guardian-type, Class Titan, Order Sun Legion; Thirteen [13] Guardian-type, Class Warlock, Order Praxic; Seventeen [17] Guardian-type, Class Warlock, Order Cryptochron; approx. [#] Hive, variable types [Acolytes, Knights, Ogres, Thralls, Wizards]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crota; First Pillar; Gunnvor [AKA Gunnvor, the Dawncaller]; Light; Ning, Wei
//AUDIO PRESERVED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[g:01] Wei Ning needs more time. It falls to us. First Pillars! To me!
[g:02] Crota! Gunnvor, the Dawncaller challenges you!
[g:03] [battle cry]


TYPE: LIVE SURVEILLANCE FEED [CONTINGENCY-LINKED]
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan, designate Gunnvor [AKA Gunnvor, the Dawncaller] [g]
ASSOCIATIONS: Hive; First Pillar; Light; Moon [Earth]; Oceanus Procellarum [Earth's Moon]
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[g:01] Gunnvor to all First Pillars: We're coming in hot.
[g:02] The Ocean of Storms is living up to its name.
[g:03] Defenders, erect wards upon transmat.
[g:04] Strikers, shelter under wards or whatever cover you can find until our Firebreak friends fall back.
[g:05] When they've regrouped, I'll give the signal for the counterattack.
[g:06] All right. Let's give the Hive some hell!

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Fragment: Sai Mota's Ghost

TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY RECORD]
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate Yuka [y]
ASSOCIATIONS: Light; Omnigul; Wormrot
//AUDIO PRESERVED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[y:01] I raised her 43 times. But on the 44th death, Omnigul's wormrot clung to her bones, rendered my powers useless on her.
[y:02] Now my Light is fading. But if there's a chance to revive her, I won't leave her. I won't…


TYPE: LIVE SURVEILLANCE FEED [CONTINGENCY-LINKED]
PARTIES: Three [3]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock, designate Eriana-3 [e3]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter, designate Eris Morn [em]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter, designate Sai Mota [sm]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crota; Eriana-3; God [Hive]; Moon [Earth]; Morn, Eris; Mota, Sai
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[sm:01] So, driven by the words of an exiled madman and a desire for revenge, you are planning a forbidden attack by half a dozen people in an interdiction zone where thousands of Guardians were killed, and that plan is to kill a god. Did I get that right?
[e3:01] Yes.
[em:01] Yes.
[sm:02] Good. I'm in.

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Fragment: Gimble-4's Ghost

TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY RECORD]
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate Jeev [j]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan, designate Gimble-4 [g4]
ASSOCIATIONS: Adonna; Akka; Song; Eir; Ur; Xol; Yul
//AUDIO PRESERVED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[j:01] We're going in, getting what Adonna wanted, and getting out. Do you copy?
[j:02] …Hey. You listening?
[g4:01] Eir… Ur… Xol… Yul… Eir… Ur… Xol… Yul…
[j:03] What are you doing? Hey—
[g4:02] EIR. UR. XOL. YUL. AKKA!
[j:04] Ahhh—


TYPE: LIVE SURVEILLANCE FEED [CONTINGENCY-LINKED]
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Research-type, Crypto-Archaeologist [Reef], designate Adonna [a]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan, designate Gimble-4 [g4]
ASSOCIATIONS: Engram; Graphemics; Hive; Music; Paracausal; Quantum Field Theory; Relativity; Runes; Song
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[a:01] Engram precepts—not just prototypical but in sum—could be cynosural of a recondite gestalt. Procuring a modal sample from the Hive and comparing it to their runic syntax might be key to its graphemics and, ultimately, ambages to the protological patterns underlying quantum field theory, relativity, and paracausal phenomena.
[silence]
[a:02] A comparative study of Hive hymnody and graphonomy might—as part of a larger cerebrative process examining engrams through the window of fundamental theories of reality—reveal an ungirding pattern of tonal morphemes that…
[a:03] Hmm.
[silence]
[a:04] Both causal and paracausal laws of the universe might… share a common… language. Getting a sample of the Hive's… music… will help me… study it.
[silence]
[g4:01] So, you want us to record the Hive singing so you can…
[g4:02] …figure out how the universe works?
[a:05] Eureka! You apprehend it!

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Fragment: Eris Morn's Ghost

TYPE: LIVE SURVEILLANCE FEED [CONTINGENCY RECORD]
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate Brya [b]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter, designate Eris Morn [em]
ASSOCIATIONS: Light; Morn, Eris
//AUDIO PRESERVED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[em:01] No! I'll find a way to hide you, to hide your Light…
[b:01] There's no other way.
[em:02] Don't ask me to do this.
[b:02] Just promise me one thing.
[em:03] Ghost… please…
[b:03] Don't look back.


TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY-LINKED]
PARTIES: Twenty-six, approx. [26]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate Brya [b]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter, designate Eris Morn [em]; approx. [#] Hive, variable types [Acolytes, Darkblades, Deathsinger, Thralls], designate [chorus]
ASSOCIATIONS: Agah, Omar; Eriana-3; Mota, Sai; Tarlowe, Vell
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[em:01] What have I done?
[b:01] No time! Run!
[chorus:01] Eir… Ur… Xol… Yul…
[b:02] The song! Don't listen!
[b:03] Think of something else!
[em:02] I can't!
[b:04] Think of Sai Mota!
[em:03] Sai, I'm sorry.
[chorus:02] Eir… Ur… Xol… Yul…
[b:05] Think of Omar Agah!
[em:04] Oh, Omar…
[b:06] Think about Vell!
[em:05] Vell…
[b:07] Think about Eriana!
[em:06] Eriana!
[b:08] Sai, Omar, Vell—
[em:07] Sai…
[chorus:03] Eir… Ur… Xol… Yul… 
[b:09] Eriana, Sai, Omar—
[em:08] Omar…
[b:10] Vell, Eriana, Sai, Omar, Vell—
[em:09] Vell…
[chorus:04] Eir… Ur… Xol… Yul… 
[b:11] Sai, Omar, Vell, Eriana—
[em:10] Eriana…
[b:12] Sai, Omar—
[em:11] Vell, Eriana…
[em:12] Sai, Omar, Vell, Eriana…
[em:13] SAI! OMAR! VELL! ERIANA!

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Fragment: Toland's Ghost

TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY RECORD]
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate Guren [g]
ASSOCIATIONS: Deathsinger; Guren [self]; Toland [AKA Toland, the Shattered]; Traveler
//AUDIO PRESERVED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[g:01] This is the final transmission of Guren, Ghost of Toland whom you call the Shattered. He goes to hear the song of death.
[g:02] Nothing will deter him. None of you can stop him. Not anymore.
[g:03] Toland will hear the Deathsinger's melody. He will redefine death, escape the Traveler's blunt samsara.
[g:04] He will sound the depths of the powers you so myopically fear.
[g:05] My only regret is that I will not live to see his triumph.


TYPE: LIVE SURVEILLANCE FEED [CONTINGENCY-LINKED]
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate Guren [g]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock, designate Toland [t]
ASSOCIATIONS: Eriana-3; Guardian; Morn, Eris; Toland [AKA Toland, the Shattered]
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[g:01] Incoming Guardians! They've broken the perimeter. Shall I engage defenses?
[t:01] No need. They have inquisitive intentions. If murder was their mission, we'd have lost our Light long ago.
[g:02] They want to know what you know.
[t:02] Yes. And I will tell them, but they will never understand. I'll greet them with a smile and welcome them in.
[t:03] I will learn how we can benefit from their ignorance.
[g:03] Yes, but don't smile.
[t:04] Why not? A smile hides the true purpose of teeth.
[g:04] Yes, but not yours.

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Fragment: Vyhar's Ghost

TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY RECORD]
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter, designate Vyhar [v]
ASSOCIATIONS: Cabal; Ghaul; Hive; Magic; Young Wolf [Saladin's]
//AUDIO PRESERVED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[v:01] How is this possible…
[v:02] Ghaul's dead. You're dead! The Young Wolf killed you!
[v:03] What is this? Hive magic?


TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY-LINKED]
PARTIES: Four [4]. One [1] Cabal, Centurion-type, Dominus, designate Ghaul [g]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan, designate Omnibull [o]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock, designate Rana Untu [ru]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter, designate Vyhar [v]
ASSOCIATIONS: Cabal; Ghaul; Gladiator; Incendior; Light; Vyhar; Young Wolf [Saladin's]
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[o:01] Vyhar, behind me!
[v:01] Just a sec!
[v:02] There! That'll give them something—
[ru:01] Watch out!
[v:03] Damn Incendiors!
[o:02] I told you—
[ru:02] Heads up! 
[v:04] What in the…?
[ru:03] Is that Ghaul?
[o:03] Gladiators incoming!
[v:05] That's got them riled up!
[g:01] Traveler, do you see me now?
[v:06] He's huge!
[ru:04] He has the Light!
[o:04] Impossible!
[g:02] I am immortal—a god!
[o:05] Listen to them cheering.
[ru:05] We've lost.
[g:03] You have failed!
[o:06] The plan didn't work.
[g:04] Witness the dawning of a new age!
[ru:06] Wait! Something's happening!
[g:05] Noooooooooo!
//LIGHT INFLUX EXCEEDS SAFE CAPACITY//

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Fragment: Lonesome Ghost

TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY RECORD]
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate undesignated [u]
ASSOCIATIONS: First Light; Light; Luna [AKA Moon; Earth]; Reef
//AUDIO PRESERVED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[u:01] This will be my last transmission. Not sure I even have the Light left to send it.
[u:02] Thought I'd look for a Guardian on Luna. A First Light colonist. A downed Reef pilot. Maybe an Exo who never came home from the war.
[u:03] Is it possible… to miss someone… you've never met?


TYPE: CANDIDATE SCAN [CONTINGENCY-LINKED]
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate undesignated [u]
ASSOCIATIONS: First Light
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[u:01] Finally! Another First Light technician.
[u:02] All right, let's see about you…
[u:03] Hoo boy. Another one.
[u:04] DNA degradation alone makes this impossible, but even if I could bring you back, who'd put you back together again?
[u:05] Inextirpable psychological trauma. Indelible psychosis: violence, paranoia, obsessive behavior. And… yup, some kind of hallucinatory mechanism. Damage to the occipital lobe and limbic, and then those weird formations in the parietal and temporal. It's like something rewired your brain but did it through your DNA.
[u:06] What were they doing up here?

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Fragment: Omar Agah's Ghost

TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY RECORD]
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate Karsys [k]
ASSOCIATIONS: Agah, Omar
//AUDIO PRESERVED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[k:01] My time has come. Finally, finally…
[k:02] When I go, you'll be free. It'll all be over.
[k:03] Omar… do you think… we'll see each other… again?


TYPE: LIVE SURVEILLANCE FEED [CONTINGENCY-LINKED]
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock, designate Eriana-3 [e3]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter, designate Omar Agah [oa]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crota; Eriana-3; Great Disaster; Hive; Moon [Earth]; Morn, Eris; Ning, Wei; Toland [AKA Toland, the Shattered]; Vanguard
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[oa:01] You can't be serious.
[silence]
[oa:02] You are. But why?
[silence]
[oa:03] Dying up there won't bring her back, you know.
[silence]
[oa:04] Sorry. That wasn't… I'm sorry. Sometimes I say—
[e3:01] You're honest, Omar. It's a quality I very much admire. So, allow me to be honest in return.
[e3:02] We're going back, because we have found a way to destroy Crota. The Vanguard is too cowardly to use it.
[oa:05] Cowardly?
[e3:03] You know it's true. We hide behind the Wall as if it would save us, but what if Crota decided to descend?
[e3:04] What if Crota and his armies landed in the City? How many more would die?
[oa:06] But if Crota were to attack us, couldn't we defeat him here?
[e3:05] No. The only means of destroying him is up there.
[oa:07] Then why won't the Vanguard agree to—
[e3:06] Eris and I went to Toland—
[oa:08] Eris? Eris Morn?
[e3:07] She sent me.
[oa:09] Why the hell didn't you just say so? Let's go.

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Fragment: Eriana-3's Ghost

TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY RECORD]
PARTIES: Three [3]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate Jax [j]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock, designate Eriana-3 [REDACTED]; One [1] Hive, Wizard-type, Deathsinger, designate Ir Yût [REDACTED]
ASSOCIATIONS: Deathsinger; Deathsong; Eriana-3; Hive; Ir Yût; Praxic Order; Toland [AKA Toland, the Shattered]; Wizard
//AUDIO PRESERVED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[j:01] I'll keep the feed live. Maybe the Praxics can make use of this data.
[j:02] It's a song that's killing her. Gone on for about two minutes, thirty seconds now.
[j:03] I've wiped it from this transmission, in case its power extends through recorded media.
[j:04] If anyone is listening… don't trust Toland.


TYPE: LIVE SURVEILLANCE FEED [CONTINGENCY-LINKED]
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter, designate Eris Morn [em]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock, designate Eriana-3 [e3]
ASSOCIATIONS: Eriana-3; Great Disaster; Morn, Eris; Saloon; Tower
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[em:01] I knew I'd find you here.
[e3:01] Where else should I be?
[silence]
[e3:02] Eris?…You made it.
[em:02] I did. I wish more could say the same.
[silence]
[e3:03] You want something to drink?
[e3:04] You sure? On the house tonight.
[em:03] I'm sure.
[silence]
[e3:05] You know, this is where we…
[em:04] I know.
[e3:06] When she laughed, the dishes would rattle. You remember that?
[em:05] I remember.
[e3:07] Now, it's so damn quiet…
[e3:08] EVERYBODY'S TOO DAMN QUIET!
[e3:09] LAUGH!
[e3:10] LAUGH, DAMN IT!
[silence]
[e3:11] Somebody, just laugh…
[silence]
[e3:12] I… I just miss her so much…
[em:06] I know.

<|endoftext|>

Ghost Fragment: Vell Tarlowe's Ghost

TYPE: CONTINGENCY RECORD
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate Razor [r]
ASSOCIATIONS: Hive; Light; Tarlowe, Vell
//AUDIO CONTINGENCY ARCHIVED//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[r:01] I can't… bring him back…
[r:02] They were too many… everywhere… devouring his Light.
[r:03] I need to find the others, I need to tell them.


TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED [CONTINGENCY-LINKED]
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter, designate Omar Agah [oa]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan, designate Vell Tarlowe [vt]
ASSOCIATIONS: Agah, Omar; Crota; Eriana-3; Great Disaster; Hive; Light; Moon [Earth]; Morn, Eris; Mota, Sai; Tarlowe, Vell; Toland [AKA Toland, the Shattered]; Throne World
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS…/

[oa:01] Hang on, does it make sense to you that Crota will be weaker in some reality he created?
[vt:01] It doesn't have to make sense. He just has to be stopped.
[oa:02] I know, but wouldn't you make a netherworld or whatever where you were invulnerable?
[vt:02] According to Toland—
[oa:03] Right, Toland. Why are we trusting anything that lunatic says?
[vt:03] I don't trust him. His highest loyalty is to knowledge. I trust you. I trust Eris and the others. I trust the Light in us.
[oa:04] A lot of Guardians brought their Light here. Are we any different?
[vt:04] They didn't know what Toland knows.
[oa:05] Toland again!
[vt:05] Toland again. I don't trust my weapons. I use them.
[silence]
[oa:06] Fair enough.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding the Great Disaster

My Queen,

We were right. It was under our noses the whole time.

Something lies deep below the Moon's surface, and I believe it's more important than we initially believed. It's something we may not be ready for—I've found a Pyramid, akin to your description. It's what we've been hunting for.

The Pyramid has reopened a box in my mind, long thought locked, its contents frightening and heartbreaking. It's forcing me to confront memories buried ages ago. People, places, vile creatures—all are rushing to the forefront of my consciousness. If it's affecting me like this, what will it do to our loved ones, those we've sworn to protect?

I vividly remember the stories from that night. The sky burning green, the roar of thunder ripping through the darkness, and the Eater of Hope tearing through our ranks. Crota, the merciless Hive prince whose dark campaign to pursue the Traveler led to the slaughter of countless worlds—all in the name of his father, Oryx, the Taken King.

I'll never forget the Vanguard's failed attempt to reclaim the Moon from the Hive. The Great Disaster. We lost thousands, needlessly. I fear we are on the verge of doing so once again.

Now the Hive are spreading across the Moon, perhaps mounting a defensive or some other insidious machination. We must access the inside of the Pyramid by whatever means necessary, to find what I believe may be the key to our battle with the Darkness. It's too critical to allow the Hive to interfere.

This is our duty. My fate has guided me here. We will set it right. The price will be high, but the alternative is not an option. It will take the collective might of all Guardians working together to lead us to a brighter future.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding Nightmares

Ikora,

The Nightmares appear to be extracted from our very psyche—violent manifestations that wreak havoc, tormenting us with our past trauma. They tease us with a life we once knew, prying into our minds and attacking our most vulnerable points. This assault on our emotions is aimed to weaken us and our sense of purpose. But I will not waver. Emotions can be overcome. I don't fully comprehend the power these Nightmares wield, or if they can truly be conquered, but I have yet to meet an enemy who could not be.

I cannot shake the feeling that we are being toyed with, that these Nightmares are a hindrance to our goal. We must not lose sight of what they are guarding.

Perhaps they wish to make us question ourselves and our will to fight, to overcome. Now, I lived in the darkness for years, barely escaping with what was left of my life. The toll it took on me to refortify myself is something I refuse to experience again. If the Pyramid is indeed testing us, it will find we are more than up to the challenge.

The Pyramid has also spawned another entity, one that presents a different kind of danger. It does not attempt to harm me physically. Instead, it seeks to wage psychological warfare—a battlefield I have lived on. The Pyramid had the gall to bring Sai Mota before me, devoid of her corporeal form, hoping to shake my resolve.

I will admit, seeing this phantom was jarring, but the Pyramid underestimates my will. It was almost comforting to see her again. Nothing will break my determination. I can't allow it. Not with what's at stake.

Should we falter, all our work—along with our goal of an existence without strife, pain, or hardship—will cease to be. No one should have to endure what I've lived through. As long as I am around, no one ever will… We cannot acquiesce.

We will show them the meaning of Light.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding Eris's Fireteam

My Queen,

They won't leave me alone. It was only Sai at first. Now Vell Tarlowe joins her, back to torture me. Once more, I'm forced to relive the loss of my old fireteam. Their screams of agony haunted me for so long, but never did I anticipate hearing their voices again. The Darkness is deceptive and seeks to corrupt from within. It knows just where to strike.

Terrible pain has resurfaced from a scar that I assumed had healed. Now something is scratching and clawing its way out. When we went after Crota to seek retribution for the Great Disaster, we knew there would be risks. We did not know it would be a suicide mission. I'm ashamed to say I never wanted to think about these events again. How can we move on from our past if we continue to live in it?

They were the last family I had before my time in the Dark.

Six of us went in. Only I made it out.

Eriana-3, my leader—our first encounter consisted of an argument over a piece of music I loathed. Eriana was enamored with its melody and sought to convince me of its merits. Her unequivocal honesty in the face of dissenting opinions led me to pledge my total devotion and trust to her. I would hum the tune quietly to myself in the Dark, to stave off the madness that was consuming me.

Our Titan, Vell, was the first to fall. I mourn him to this day and think of his courage in times of despair. We should all be so valiant in the face of overwhelming odds. Today, I will need his example more than ever.

Sai's knives were as sharp as her wit. She laughed in the very face of danger. Now, the same laugh that I heard countless times and that once brought me great comfort rings painfully in my memory and triggers nothing but anguish. How I wish I could amend that! She deserved more.

Poor Omar was skeptical of our chances, yet his bravery endured—even as his Light was pulled from him by the Hive Wizard, the Heart of Crota. Few possess the fortitude required to press on when all hope seems lost. He has imbued me with the strength to weather the coming storm.

And you know Toland, the Shattered—the mad Warlock who knew more than he let on. I had my doubts about him in the past, but time changes perspectives. I now respect his dedication to learning the ways of the Darkness and surviving despite them, much as I had to.

By confronting me with my lost fireteam and stirring up memories so painful, the Nightmares only confirm my earlier assumptions—I feel they are trying to distract us.

Remain vigilant, no matter the cost.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding Omnigul, Will of Crota

My Queen,

Omnigul.

The monster Crota's sycophantic zealot. Mother to Crota's hell spawn. Murderer of my friend Sai. Omnigul wrought terror throughout the stars and brought about the loss of countless lives. She was ultimately defeated by a brave fireteam of Guardians, who drowned out her screams with a maelstrom of bullets and vengeance.

Now her whetted shriek pierces my ears once again.

The Pyramid is playing its cards and going "all in," as Cayde-6 would say. Oddly, I find myself thinking of him more now that he is gone. I suppose I've grown closer to other Guardians and the Vanguard than I realized. If the Pyramid is dragging the Nightmare of Omnigul into the fray, it tells me one thing: we are getting closer.

I am aware that these Nightmares are not truly what they represent, but the mind can be fooled, even momentarily. In those moments lies all the destructive power the Darkness hopes to exploit. I fight back, but the Nightmares grow stronger.

I worry how long I can bear the weight the Pyramid places upon me. These memories seek to tear me apart, my Queen, and the familiar pang of weariness rears its ugly head. I will do my best, knowing it will not always be enough.

For now, I assume the worst is yet to come.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding the Hidden Swarm

My Queen,

Crota's minions emerge once more. The Hidden Swarm that previously served Crota has banded together once again, leaderless but not purposeless. The energy emanating from the Pyramid has apparently attracted undesirable attention. If I am struggling to understand its potential, I wonder whether the Hidden Swarm has even scratched the surface.

Nonetheless, the Pyramid arrived on the Moon well before Guardians set foot here and remained unseen by us for eons. I spent years trapped in the Hellmouth, and all the while this force was buried beneath me, hidden by the Hive. If only I had known. How long has the Hidden Swarm been experimenting with the Pyramid's power? For all the Hive's efforts, they fortunately do not seem to have succeeded in penetrating the Pyramid's walls.

Now that the Pyramid has activated, I sense a certain desperation in the Hidden Swarm. The Hive are frenzied. Their rituals and the appearance of Crota's daughter, Hashladûn, suggest that either the Hidden Swarm is seeking leadership, or it is so malleable that anyone desiring an army might claim them.

We cannot underestimate the Hidden Swarm. I know far too well what kind of damage these Hive are capable of. Too many victims have fallen to their bloodlust. I've… lost too much. Because of them, I lost my Ghost. I lost my eyes. They assumed me beaten. But they were wrong. I used their own dark magic against them, surviving and learning their tricks. I know where they are weak, a place only mentioned in whispers: the Catacombs. It is there that unknown shadows lurk, performing the most depraved rituals imaginable.

Should some malignant force rise from the Darkness to guide them, I shudder to think what this brood could achieve. This must never be allowed to happen. The Hive may have suffered a momentary loss and could attempt retaliation, but now is our time to strike. No more distractions. We must get inside.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding the Spread of Nightmares

Ikora,

It's spreading.

The Nightmares have begun propagating on celestial bodies well beyond the Moon. Is the Pyramid's power growing, or have we simply overlooked how far its reach extends? Neither answer would provide much comfort.

The plague of Nightmares continues to grow as the Pyramid exerts its influence. We may not be able to defeat the distractions, but Vanguard support in suppressing this mounting threat could be of great use. We can provide a distraction of our own while I focus my attention where it is most desperately needed: uncovering the secrets inside the Pyramid. I sense there could be a greater danger lurking in the darkness, and the Pyramid may just be our key to stopping it.

Every moment that goes by, we become more vulnerable, and our allies further endangered. I fear for my friends. This is the price we must pay, however. If we are to ensure a brighter future for us all, we will have to endure a darker present. But if they are trying to break me, they will have to try harder.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding Phogoth, the Untamed

My Queen,

Abomination. The Untamed. Spawn of Crota. That's what we called him.

Phogoth was a creature bred for one purpose: destruction. The Hidden Swarm kept this Ogre alive through foul rituals of rebirth, chained up in the Summoning Pits, its unnatural existence a reminder of the threat the Swarm poses.

Yet, seeing its visage has sparked an unexpected emotion within me: pity.

I, too, know the pain of having to lead an existence you no longer want. The monster should have died and been forgotten. Instead, it had to live a life of indentured servitude. Sometimes, I feel the same. Though duty is my oath and privilege, I can't help but feel trapped by the endless cycle of the fight. Will it all be worth it in the end? Will I ever know peace?

Perhaps the Nightmares are weighing on me more than I'd care to admit, as these thoughts flood my mind and cloud my judgment. Even still, I remain steadfast in our mission, my Queen. Your endless support drives me, and for that, I am thankful.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding Taniks, the Scarred

My Queen,

Loyalty to the highest bidder is no loyalty at all. The Fallen mercenary, Taniks, the Scarred has appeared. It is… a Nightmare, I believe, though it is hard to say with Taniks. He was assumed defeated by Guardians during the SIVA conflict, although he has come back from the dead so many times that I feel somewhat uncertain.

All I am sure of is that the Nightmares are growing stronger. They challenge my fortitude in a way I haven't experienced since my time in the Hellmouth.

Taniks has changed in many respects over the years. He has enlisted the technology of the Fallen, Vex, and Humans to alter himself, out of necessity. He's a survivor, much like myself. Never in all my years did I think I would waver in my opinion of him, yet here I stand, sympathetic to a being who doesn't understand the meaning of the word.

I sometimes question what kept me in the Hellmouth. Was I truly trapped there, or was I keeping myself there? Was it a self-imposed exile for the disastrous attempt at assassinating Crota? Was I a prisoner of my own making, doing penance for my mistakes? No. This can't be right.

Taniks is a lawless murderer, with no moral code or ethics. There was that period, I am sure you recall, where it was assumed Cayde-6 had slain him, yet he returned—only to bring down Andal Brask in cold blood. Despicable.

This is not me; I'm no murderer. I fight for something better alongside all the Guardians of Light. This mission becomes more arduous by the day, but I am resolute in my cause.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding Skolas

My Queen,

The Kell of Kells. Skolas. A true Nightmare if ever I've seen one! I apologize, my Queen, if the mention his name unearths any foul memories. I know the toll it took on the Awoken when he waged his unholy war on the Reef, rallying the House of Wolves in an uprising that saw the loss of so many Awoken lives. We mourn them still to this day.

Skolas's ambition was nothing if not relentless. In certain regards, I almost respect his sense of duty to his people. He was ruthless in his quest to lead his followers to glory. After his final revolt inside the Prison of Elders, Guardians banded together to thwart him once and for all—until today, when the Darkness summoned a Nightmare of him.

I fear we may someday find ourselves in Skolas's place, shackled and bound, deprived of our friends and followers. Yet we cannot abandon hope… no matter how freeing it would be. To just give in to the Darkness. To give up. To feel no more pain.

No.

Skolas was grueling to defeat. We must be the same.

We too shall adapt and become ruthless in hopes of staving off the Darkness. I feel the same sense of dedication to my people that Skolas felt for his. Death itself will have to claim me to end my campaign.

The weight of this mission is not overwhelming, though it feels heavier with each step forward. I will carry on.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding Ghaul

My Queen,

The Red War was not so long ago. The Nightmare of Ghaul is an unwelcome reminder of the slaughter we faced. Many of us are still rebuilding after the atrocities committed by this murderous fiend. He orchestrated one of the greatest tragedies our people have endured when he tried to steal the Traveler for himself and harness its Light, destroying our homes and the Tower, massacring thousands of innocents in the process.

Ghaul's most odious transgression was not his attempted theft of the Traveler, nor his part in the Speaker's death, but his profane, self-aggrandized fantasy that he would be chosen to receive the Traveler's Light. It would amuse me to think this brute, who excelled only at betrayal and subterfuge, would ever be worthy of the Traveler's Light, had his misguided campaign not led to so much senseless bloodshed.

Light stands for self-sacrifice and devotion. Light is the hope of a peaceful, harmonious world. Ghaul sought only power. He would never have been chosen for the Light.

I often wonder whether I was chosen, or whether I made a choice in my journey through this life. Did fate make me, or did I make my own fate? I cannot say with great certainty, one way or the other. I can only assert that I choose what I feel to be right in any given moment and hope I made the right choice.

I was relieved when Ghaul was defeated by the might of Guardians and destroyed by the Traveler's Light. It was reaffirming. I spare no pity for Ghaul, as he was a wretched creature who got what he deserved. His rage-fueled quest for power will not prove our greatest test, however. I dread that whatever comes creeping out of the darkness next will dwarf the devastation Ghaul brought forth. We must steel ourselves for what lies inside the Pyramid.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding Zydron, Gate Lord

My Queen,

I find myself unexpectedly empathizing with the Vex Gate Lords. The machines' sole purpose lies in defending their realm—a noble and relatable cause. I employ that same sense of duty. It's what drives me in our crusade against the Darkness and allows me to persevere, even when I feel pushed past my limits, much as I do now. I will not lie to you, my Queen: the very fabric of my mind feels twisted and frayed.

I have always sensed something inherently dark in regard to the Vex. Specifics elude me for now, but I believe it warrants further scrutiny, should we survive this ordeal.

The ancient protectors of the Black Garden are rumored to contain code—not coordinates to a place, but potentially a key to time itself. Perhaps we can harness that code and erase the horrors of the past. We could save ourselves from the suffering and pain we're being forced to confront.

It sounds weak to hope for something so impossible, but trying to reconcile the distress has caused a lesion that I fear will never heal. The past has come back to torment me. For those I love, I will make sacrifices, but will there be anything left of me afterward?

<|endoftext|>

Regarding the Fanatic

My Queen,

I have now seen Fikrul, the Fanatic—the Scorned Baron, brainwashed into subjugation by your brother, a puppet in Uldren's scheme to open a gateway to the Dreaming City.

The appearance of his Nightmare begs even bigger questions: Why him? What is the Pyramid implying?

I often ruminate on the Fallen. They are a fascinating people: a once-great society, now reduced to wasted potential, destroyed by the Darkness. Who can say what they might have achieved before their downward spiral into scavenging and piracy?

Is this to be my legacy, too? Am I fated to fail, a pawn to the whims of the Darkness? If that is what the Nightmare of Fikrul represents, what choice am I left with? I have already been stripped of my Light. It would be easy for the Darkness to take me, if I let it. Do I dare?

If we lose this coming battle, surely we're to suffer the same fate as the Fallen—being cast aside, aimless and gagging on our own lost hopes and ideals.

It's growing harder to find the Light.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding Crota, Son of Oryx

My Queen,

The worst is upon us. I'm afraid… struggling to control my emotions, my Queen. But it is not fear that provokes me.

Uncontrollable rage fills me as the Nightmare of Crota returns to taunt me for my failures once again. I am always failing.

The countless lives taken during the Great Disaster, my fireteam, and my own lost humanity—they have all come rushing back. I am trying in vain to stop a waterfall with a tree branch. I am overwhelmed. I fail again.

The Eater of Hope laid waste to world after world in his pursuit of the Traveler. My friends… His sword stole their Light. Their. Light.

There was never a path to forgiveness with Crota. He had to be… eradicated.

The peace I felt learning of his demise at the hands of Guardians was immeasurable. I took pleasure in his death. I relished in it.

The Darkness will win. I can sense it already.

I swore I would go on. I can no longer swear this. Always failing.

Relieve me.

<|endoftext|>

Regarding the Pyramid

[UNDELIVERED, DELETED.]

My Queen,

I… am at a loss. Never before have I felt so hopeless, so adrift, so… tempted. Forgive me for my words, but I understand the allure of the Darkness. It is quite a powerful sensation to feel so free of care. My fractured mind thrills at the prospect of recklessly abandoning hope. I cannot say I didn't want it to take me. I was weak. I see this now.

I may have faltered, but I endure.

Do not mistake my weakness for betrayal. There are more pressing concerns.

[DELIVERED, RECONSTRUCTED.]

It's coming, my Queen.

It's coming for US.

We have been manipulated. We are right where it wants us. The Darkness orchestrated its plan magnificently; the Nightmares were so impeccably calculated to draw us in, make us vulnerable, and leave us exposed.

The Darkness plans to use us. We are to do its bidding. I don't know how to stop it.

I detect no fear on the part of our nemesis. We aren't even a concern. We pose no threat.

The Darkness needs a reason to fear our Light, and I intend to provide it.

I have been inside. I have nothing but beautiful and violent words for my report. I will meet you at your throne.

[DELIVERED.]

Ikora,

After all that has transpired, I must share my findings with you, for you have remained steadfast and supportive of me where others lacked faith. Having faced so many of the demons that haunted me, I finally feel a sense of closure on the horizon.

Pain is something that never truly goes away. It is something you live with, hoping it makes you stronger as you learn to cope. You cannot bury it, nor hide from it. There is power in acknowledging it.

That is how we will win. Despair not; our purpose is good and true.

I will not be weighed down in the dark by my past, my mistakes, or my trauma. Instead, I will use them, and they will lift me up, into the Light.

<|endoftext|>

1: Burden Part I

A lone engine rails against the faux tranquility of the Dead Zone, keeping a teetering chassis of metal just within the terminator line of brimming twilight. The carrier dives through needled mountains that perforate low-hanging clouds, cutting them into sheets of stratus and vapor that slide like flattening suds across a dusk ocean. A closed-net comms line crackles.

Marin Oru:
Most of the canopy is too thick to land. We'll be exposed in the clearing.

Saint-14:
She will be there. Final transmission lists six refugees; peddled for Ether.

Geppetto:
And upward of thirty Fallen.

Marin Oru:
In that case, I'm glad we brought the machine gun.

Saint-14:
This Warlord who deals with them… we will have to pay them a visit.

Marin Oru:
Focus on the task at hand. Thirty seconds.

Geppetto:
Ms. Lucine's Ghost, Ghost, reports no Pikes. However, there is a covered pit in the camp that drew curiosity. They are going radio silent.

Marin Oru:
Something better left alone, I'm sure.

They plunge into shadow, between peaks, cloud-wake trails as they slow to land. The carrier whirrs and rattles. Engines cut and cool. Titan and Warlock disembark. They wait.

"Well done, Geppetto." Marin Uro's voice emanates from his helmet, visor stiffly fixed on the tree line.

Geppetto blinks code into the gloaming horizon, awaiting response. "Thank you, Brother Marin. It was my first time."

Marin is a statue.

Saint opens the carrier's cargo hold and turns to Marin. "She will be here."

Geppetto blinks. "No response from Ms. Lucine."

"All this worry—it is over nothing. Tyv will laugh with us tomorrow." Saint pats Marin's back.

"Tomorrow." Marin's eyes are fixed on the darkening tree line.

"Yes. Tomorrow. The day after, again after that, and more until a day without armor."

"That's a pleasant thought." Marin straightens, peering at a point in the depth.

A Light blinks from the tree line.

"Brother Saint. I have located them."

<|endoftext|>

2: Burden Part II

Tyv Lucine leaves the tree line with six souls in tow. She spots Geppetto's Light flickering in the twilight. Her Ghost, Ghost, spins and shimmers in the hands of a child who is "navigating" them to their destination. Moonlight creeps into the valley, lifting the arrested momentary pitch between sundown and moonrise. Dew hugs the grass along her boots. They approach. Ghosts dissipate.

Marin stands, poised; a long-barrel armament affixed with a bipod adorns his shoulders.

"Thank you for doing this Marin." Tyv speaks softly. She thrusts a steady hand toward his.

He nods and shakes her hand. "It was Saint's idea."

"Is that what he told you?" She looks to Saint greeting refugees and ushering them into the carrier.

"It does not matter who had the idea." Saint-14 hugs her.

Marin straightens and looks beyond them. Flares loose from the canopy, breathing pale azure revival back into sky. Shrieks and lights whip into frenzy within the trees. Cloud cover casts darkness over the clearing.

Marin's stance breaks. "Tyv, get this heap in the air. Saint, you're with me."

Marin plants a bipod in the grass. Saint spreads his Light into a gleaming barricade in opposition against the tree line.

"Go now. It's a long flight. We will make sure you are not followed." Saint shoulders his rifle.

Tyv nods. She runs for the cockpit.

Saint salutes as the cargo hold shuts.

Howls ring from the brink. Fallen step into the clearing.

Marin racks the repeater. "Come on then."

The carrier engine fires. It roars; bright, bellowing flame. A beacon. A wish.

Cacophony sounds in the distance, splitting heated bends through the canopy pine as a screaming-red shell tears across the clearing. 

The carrier is annihilated.

Tyv shatters, her body skids across the grass in ruin.

Deafening shock breaks the night. In it, one lone call:

"SPIDER TANK!"

<|endoftext|>

3: Burden Part III

Saint looks to the twisted scar where the carrier had been. "They are gone…"

"SUPPRESSING FIRE!" Marin sends their response clear into the tree line. The Fallen charge against his lead rebuke. "MOVE!"

Saint catches sight of Tyv, newly breathing. She stumbles several paces away, posture crooked among the wreckage. She leans against a shard of the carrier's hull, out of sight while Ghost busily spins Light. The hand of her good arm sinks to a sheathed blade. The night air hangs still.

The Exo's eyes lock to the tree line. His will: solid iridescence. The air around him bends into infinite density. Violet shimmer ripples across his plate and bows outward against the horror, consolidating into a luminous shield. He meets the Fallen charge with Void Light doom. Machine gun fire rips overhead, cutting down Dregs and splitting the front in two. He takes ground with every step, shattering each challenger. He breaks through to the tree line and flings his shield, severing one of the Walker's limbs.

He is at the brink, face to face with death. The Walker's field gun teeters to match his verticality. Saint-14 braces. He is an incandescent Ward. A just retribution. A violet wall that stands to refute the night, but the Dawn does not follow. A second shell rings from the Walker's cannon. It collides, apocalyptic. The Ward shatters against the blast. Only darkness.

A steel hand, limp and flat, slowly clenches into a fist. They are dragged. Saint grasps at consciousness. His vision is fire and wreckage. Timbers shatter against the Walker's frame as it emerges before them, shrouded behind smoke. Fallen mouths shriek in muted deaf-tone emptiness as they fill the clearing. Saint blinks. The world races back to him.

"Skas veskirisk." The remaining Fallen ranks part to reveal a hulking Captain. "Skas volasusk!"  Chitters and trill runs from the Vandals down to the Dregs as he roars.

Marin is at his back. Breathing and bleeding. "Faster… Tyv…"

"Kapsok aps vankemraptalirask; kapsok aps vamesaqeptosirulosk." The horde raise their arms. "Meliksnisk. Monequin." They unleash a storm of bolts.

Tyv meets the bolts in the air, crackling with lightning that snaps at the ground beneath her. She whisks away the storm with a keened discipline, scattering a hail of Arc-bolts around the fireteam. Dirt hisses as the bolts sear into the ground and billow clouds into the air. She slides into the obfuscating dust and sweeps Arc purity through the Fallen in the confusion.

Marin takes the distraction. He distillates all his will, all the Light he can muster into one point. Color drains around him, and the point grows dark. He casts it from him, a pale iridescence that rips reality endlessly into itself. The sphere of Void strikes the Walker true, twisting the crumpling metal into oblivion.

 Not one Fallen remains.

They stand alone in the wreckage.

<|endoftext|>

4: Moths to Flame Part I

Cinders spit, washing faint light over Osiris's lone face. The woods behind him formlessly melt into midnight nothing. Sagira moves across his shoulders. Distant serenity. She is a small diamond. Instilled isolation. A playful flitter blinking among thermal plume. Pensive focus sloughs the physical.

He is alone in the void.

Intrusions no more.

There is a point in the depth.

It cannot be directly viewed.

Delve. Dive. Deeper.

"The fire is going out."

 Cloying worldly noise rushes back.

"Hm?"

"Aren't you cold?"

"I wasn't." Osiris rubs his brow and stirs the fire. "Thank you, Sagira."

"It's not going to get any clearer just because you want it to, Osiris. You need time."

Osiris clenches his jaw. He feels himself standing in wide shallows, gaping at an unrecognizable profundity. "Why did you choose me?" Osiris's voice is hollow. He flattens a palm for Sagira to perch.

"You have a spark." Her voice is warm air. The fire pops.

"A spark?" Frustration lines his face. "This world is dying. Over and over again."

"So were you; I dragged you back." Sagira allows Osiris's hand to cradle her shell. "I raised you until you could stand on your own. You'll do the same for them, in your own way."

Her words linger in his ears with sweetness.

"I don't have your patience, Sagira."

He takes in a slow breath and lets it out.

"Someone's coming." Her voice sharp.

"Conceal me." His serene.

Sagira dissipates as Osiris closes his palm. He dims.

<|endoftext|>

5: Moths to Flame Part II

A small band of humans emerge from the woods at Osiris's flank. Some carry rust-laden firearms. The one who leads them jaunts forward.

"Stand up, old man." The words are slung over his shoulder, wet and heavy.

"No."

A painted Ghost whips in front of Osiris's face. "Warlord Reich demands you stand."

"You're on my turf. Burning my wood. That's stealing. That's an arm."

"Given immortality, and all you can think to do is grab at what's around you. What a waste."

The Warlord laughs. The Ghost quickly laughs in step.

"You're a disgrace." Osiris peers over his shoulder. "Leave. Rethink your path."

"It's your arm or your life. Those are the rules."

"Make your decision." Osiris leaves the words to hang around the Warlord's head.

"I have half a dozen guns at my back." The Warlord puts pitted iron to Osiris's hood.

"I have a spark." Flame engulfs Osiris, erupting into wings that cast back the shadows of the night. A white-hot blade extends from his hand. In one swift motion, Osiris cuts the Warlord down into a sizzling heap and snatches his stunned Ghost from the air. His gaze shifts to the people to catch sight of their backs as the lot retreat into the woods. His attention snaps to the Ghost.

 "Why this man?" Osiris douses his flame.

"Get off me!"

Sagira compiles herself back into existence.

"You! Sister. Help!"

"Okay. Hey. He's not going to hurt you. Talk to me. Pretend like he's not here." Sagira aligns herself directly in front of the Ghost. Their irises lock and twitch erratically in sequence.

"Oh. Let him go."

Osiris releases. The Ghost dissipates. "Sagira?"

"He needed someone strong. A fighter."

"Nothing more?"

Sagira pauses.

"The Traveler was… wounded when it created us.  That pain echoes. Some of us make choices we shouldn't. Some of us are scared. The process isn't streamlined." 

"Flaws." Osiris shrinks against the forest's aphotic density. If there are flaws in the Light, then it could be corrupted. It is not indomitable, and so in time would be challenged.

"We're pieces of a whole, but distinct. Unique. You're not Mr. Perfect yourself."

He would need to learn patience.

"Where will he go?"

 "To reunite with the Traveler. To find someone new. Someone better."

<|endoftext|>

6: Foundations Part I

What would be the Last City looms over Osiris. Ramshackle barricades bend around it miles into the distance. He strides through half-formed steel-rust walls and across flattened earth foundations pocked from small-arms fire. He passes dozens of citizens welding fortifications, making repairs, and disassembling thin battle-scorched hovels to repurpose the materials into permanent homes.

Lightbearers dot the landscape, heaving great loads of metal to the burgeoning walls, melting beams together with Solar Light, or scanning for distant threats all along the many watchtowers that border the City like lighthouses guiding the lost into safe harbor. Ghosts project diagrams and schematics to steer the hands of each worker. One man pulls a crude cup from a bucket. It drips clean water as he lifts it to his lips and drinks deeply while the bucket is ferried away on pulleys to quench another group elsewhere.

"I've never seen so many Ghosts before. Will we be staying long?"

"The Traveler is here, Sagira. Where better to find the answers we seek?"

The smell of tea and spice flow through the air, bouncing punctually to the senses over aging smoke and fumes. An aroma of peppered meats draws Osiris toward a central square full of scattered materials and low cinder-chunk walls propping up scrapyard rifles. An armored Exo shuffles between cooking grills inside a ring of rubble.

"It sounded… grander," Sagira muses, surveying the tent city remnants in the distance.

"Rumors always do. It's not quite the foothold oasis Felwinter spoke of, but it is a start."

"What could be grander?" The Exo chef clatters half a dozen wooden plates of food onto a rough stone counter. "This is hope, Guardian. Quiet days like these… soon there will be more."

"I'm no Guardian. Just meeting a friend." Osiris looks to a far Tower jutting above the encompassing construction. Solitary; in the shadow of an osseous-white orb.

"I will be your friend. Come. Sit. Eat. There is enough for you to join us. I am Saint-14."

Osiris eyes the plated meat and the smoky grill before glancing back at the distant fortifications. "You could do the work of twenty on that wall."

"It is their wall. Should they require assistance, they need only ask." Saint-14 extends a plate of food toward Osiris and arranges his faceplates into a smile.

 "Since he's not going to introduce us… this is Osiris, and I'm Sagira. It's nice to meet you, Saint!"

<|endoftext|>

7: Foundations Part II

"It is nice to meet you too, Sagira! Osiris, please." Saint-14 gestures to a flimsy wooden chair.

Two Ghosts zoom past them and sweep plates from the counter before scooting off.

"Would you mind helping them bring food to the people, Sagira?"

"Sure, let me just load up my service protocol." The joke hangs. Saint-14 expresses genuine thanks. "Okay! I'll be right back!" She delicately balances a plate and floats away.

"Are you not hungry?"

"You could be patrolling with the Iron Lords." Osiris pulls the plate closer.

Saint sits. "Is that what gives you purpose?"

A gaggle of Ghosts zoom across the ground, kicking up tiny clouds and chirping to each other. They glide up the rubble, leave clean plates, scoop up new ones, and are gone again.

"There are monsters out there—the kind a Lightless being could not hope to overcome."

"Life is hard." Saint stands to line the grill with shaved pork. "Those of us who can help, should."

"I worry about wasted potential." Osiris sneaks a small piece from his plate.

"You should see the Speaker. Perhaps he can help you find your path."

Osiris scoffs. "I don't think he has my answers." 

"You want to bet?" Saint-14 flips the mound of pork with his hand.

"I don't gamble." Osiris pauses. He glances over his shoulder.

Sagira twists in formation with the other Ghosts. They dance through the air, scooping empty plates from improvised tables.

"Is he a good man?"

"I would give my life for him."

"Hm."

"All this," Saint-14 gestures to the borders of the City, "it is a breath. People are better if they have a moment to breathe."

"You think so?"

"I do, and I think you will come to see I am right."

Ghosts make the loop. Sagira laughs.

"Maybe. Thank you for the food, Saint-14."

"You're welcome."

The two eat.

Osiris's shoulders slacken. "Does this taste burnt to you?"

"No."

<|endoftext|>

8: Observer Effect

Saint-14 barrels through drifting wool tufts, dyed in now-dispersed polychromatic patterns.

A detachment of the Firebreak Order had overextended their hold in the valley and, when pressed, refused to give ground. Their valiance was swept away in futility. Eight downed. One missing.

He emerges at a ridgetop on the Western border, ribbons of wool still clinging to his armor like kaleidoscopic streaks. Munitions detonate against the open sky behind him. Lightning crashes down in response. The City is not lost yet.

Eight Guardians lay Lightless, their bodies back to back in a field of broken enemies and scorched earth. Fallen circle them like vultures. In the chaos, their Ghosts had fled toward the ridgetop without detection. Saint-14 watches them glide fast and low. He maps the route up the sloped ridge toward a small crater at the lip where he could meet them.

His attention snaps to the crater. The ninth. Elriq. She was safe, and alone, and burrowed into herself.

 Saint slides into the crater next to Elriq; her surprised terror fades to relief.

"Are you okay?"

"Yes." Her Ghost is wounded, but alive.

"We will clear a path, and they will all stand again."

The air bursts open above the Fallen. Those closest are incinerated; in their place shines Osiris's brilliant golden Light. The blast ruptures a nearby Captain's barrier, sending them careening across the dirt. Hissing and roars erupt. Shock rifles sling bolts skyward.

Flame rains and scatters them. His movements cut aureate ribbons through their ranks. Disorientation turns to panic, and one after another are consumed by his conflagration.

"Give them hell, you crazy bastard." Saint turns to Elriq. "Are you ready?"

"I can't."

Osiris cheats his sight to the fleeing Ghosts for a moment. Click. They had almost made the ridge. Click. He spun back; palm alight. Click. The Captain, now standing, sends the full fury of his scorch cannon. The blast rips through Osiris's image in shimmering fashion, scattering Light across the valley, traced in molten glass.

More Fallen flood the valley.

"We need you, Titan."

"I can't die again."

"Then we will not die." Saint checks his magazine.

Several tiny Lights blip over the lip of the ridge. "Guardians!"

She sits up. Counts them all. Eight lives. Eight that would carry so many more.

"I couldn't…"

"This is a new choice." Saint-14 steps out of the crater. "You are only what you want to be."

Elriq stands. "Hide now, little ones. We're going to get your Guardians back."

<|endoftext|>

9: Thin

Osiris burns; a roaring visage against the sky-soot firmament. Compressing, endless night. Skeins of light twist and hum; charged sinew stitch through his muscle and bone. Myriad shimmering-gold marionettes scramble to reinforce gaps across the City's defense at his behest. The East below him, breached by waves of frenetic clamoring Fallen. The front had not broken, only moved. He focuses his projections there.

A small fireteam holds the line. Osiris twists. Golden defiance moves to stanch the Fallen's momentum. One projection locks eyes with a Titan. She nods, and with fluid elegance, the projection lifts her skyward. She brings down a tempest that rolls thunder across the City walls and scatters the advancing force. Shaxx bellows in the distance.

Multiple skeins snap. The sky stretches into starless night; an oblivion crowds the borders of Osiris's mind in suffocating omnipresence. The margins. Light thinly stretched. Under duress. Never enough.

The West is bending.

The transfer, instantaneous.

Osiris weaves Inferno. Ether and flame engulfing each other into ashen wake. He spots eight Lights climbing the ridge. Click. A lone Guardian crashes onto the ridgetop horizon. Click. They will survive. Click. He turns, palm alig—

The North is bending.

Nerves burn. The City's golden hue falters. Only a moment of exhalation.

The North fractures. Field guns rip into the Wall.

He is there. Two Hunters hold. One snap-fires beams of sunlight from her rifle, wreathed in flame. The second dances through challengers, her blades Arc purity. None would pass them.

His projections move to fill the gap.

Bodies in the rubble.

Evacuees from the Eastern breach caught in the blast.

Their deaths filled his mind through twenty gilded eyes, capturing the scene in its totality.

Osiris would scour the Northern front in golden Light.

He looked to the shattered wall. Through the gap, mind inutile, overshadowed by the eternal precipice. Crowded with menace. Eyes peering down, seeping over, hungry, waiting to flood this last hope with plunging depth. Even now, as Fallen lines break against the Light, others stand watching from deep starless hollows. If not this, another. The dam will fail, as all do in time.

But for now, the South bends… and it can still be cleansed with fire.

<|endoftext|>

10: War Stories

Geppetto:
Coms frequency no longer jammed. Re-establishing. Hello OpCom. Welcome to—

Shaxx:
THIS IS SHAXX; THE ENEMY IS IN FULL RETREAT!

Osiris:
The Northern walls stand—
I am needed.

Saint-14:
Shaxx? Hello? Western Fronts are clear. This is Saint-14.

Shaxx:
AMAZING! THEN WE MARCH ON THE SOUTH.

Saladin:
The Fallen's southern approach has broken. The City holds.

Silence hangs for but a momen—

Shaxx:
THEY THOUGHT THEY WERE GOING TO CRASH IN HERE AND KILL ALL OF US.

The group laughs.

Saladin:
Yes.

Osiris:
All fireteams accounted for. No casualties.

Saint-14:
Thanks to you and my friend Elriq. You should have seen her. She saved eight little Lights. Charged dozens of Fallen with me. Lightning, bullets—it was quite impressive.

Elriq:
You're too kind. It was an honor to fight by your side.

Shaxx:
DOZENS?

Saladin:
I'm impressed, Saint. How many deaths did your charge cost you?

Saint-14:
I did not die. Elriq provided wonderful cover fi—

Shaxx:
I DON'T BELIEVE YOU.

Saint-14:
Is that because you died, Shaxx? I heard the Fallen broke your horn.

Shaxx:
Where did you hear that?

Elriq:
I can vouch for Saint. We didn't die.

Saint bursts out laughing.

Shaxx:
IF ONLY WE COULD ALL BE MORE LIKE YOU, SAINT.

Saint-14:
As I said, I had excellent cover.

Osiris:
I don't know how many times I died.
I witnessed the battle through the eyes of the City.
Balanced on wire.
We were spread thin.

Saint-14:
My Brother, you have fought hard.
You should be proud. Without you, we would have been lost.

Osiris:
Some were.

<|endoftext|>

11: Breathe

At the perimeter of the risen walls, sectioned off from the rest of the City, tiny farms sprout from war-rich soil and sow green dashes across ploughed patties. Snake-weave vines trellis up war-husk remnants, long-since abandoned. The weeks since Six Fronts had left the City in a rare lull. Wildflowers bud in the Light of the Traveler.

The rains would come soon.

Loose summer fabrics that dance colors against the Sun gave way to textured wool and wrapped layers deeper in hue. Emerald tassels ripple in the wind atop iron poles, creating a wide seed row for tomorrow's festivities. Ikora leads citizens from the City core to partake in the Remembrance. Saint lifts the yoke from his shoulders, and they smile to each other. He did not expect so many to walk the seed row with them before the Festival. He greets each passerby as they enter the grounds. Some shake his hand, some thank him. Some present violet ribbons that lace through his metallic frame.

Birds perch on the higher points of the walls.

Zavala drives the final tassel poles to form a Wardclash circle. Shaxx stands monolithic over a swarm of children, their entire being transfixed on him as he recounts moments of heroism in theatrical detail. Ana coaxes Solar firecrackers into lanterns and sets them at the fore of the seed row for revelers. Osiris is absent; preoccupied with insatiable predilections that drive him to worry.

The world had grown around him.

Saint watches citizens take their turn through the seed row. Seeds scatter over each of them, and the wind carries their lanterns across fields and over the walls. Fiery glow bursts against the encroaching dusk as the people complete their circuit and return home. Guardians finish preparations and filter to their nightly posts. Activity wanes into stillness.

"Anyone you want to remember?" Ana hands Saint an empty lantern.

He turns it in his hands. "What will you do when we beat back the Darkness? When there is peace?"

"I don't know." She sighs. "You ever wonder about the other thirteen? I think about that sometimes."

"I am happy with fourteen."

Ana grips his shoulder. "Me too, Saint-14." She sprinkles a handful of seeds over him. "Make sure you walk the row. It's getting dark." She smiles.

"Thank you, Anastasia."

Ana nods. "You know it's Ana," she says, and makes her way back to the City.

Saint-14 fills the lantern with Void Light and walks the row. "For Marin."

He sits. Pigeons perch on him, picking out seeds. He watches the lantern until he can no longer distinguish it among the stars.

"Good birds. I am glad you found a home here."

<|endoftext|>

12: Margins Part I

Osiris sits in the small stone garden beneath the Traveler; his attempts at communion unsuccessful. He had seen the Speaker stand here for hours. 

Ikora had begrudgingly agreed to appear in his place at the Remembrance. Her words were stern, but deep down, she knows victories have lulled in complacency.

There is an imminent, daunting pressure.

A noose awaiting a misstep.

A delicate game.

Braziers cast shadows; distracting shades flickering across his eyes, breaking his concentration.

Osiris breathes.

The stone gardens are endless space. The skyline is razed horizon.

Breathe.

He is alone in the void. Intrusions no more.

There is a point in the depth. It cannot be directly viewed.

Delve. Dive. Deeper.

Still, only a point in the aphotic depth.

The nothing. Expansive.

Osiris sinks to gain new perspective. The point remains.

It is so faint. Distant. Though he knows he can see the Light.

His reach stretched thin. Clarity, in the space between his hand and the point. The osseous-white point. Dim now.

The omnipresence was.

Hungry acknowledgement.

Vast. Himself against the enormity; an endless unfurling midnight. And a lone point.

<|endoftext|>

13: Margins Part II

"I am pleased to see you here. May I sit?" he spoke.

Cloying noise. The stone garden is present. He is present.

The Traveler, a monarch against bleak crepuscular ink.

"You may." Osiris stands.

"Stay."

Osiris halts. He turns toward the Speaker; the Light of the Traveler washes against the bone-white hue of his mask. "Is something needed?"

"There is so much activity in the City. I feel it has been too long since we last spoke."

Osiris hangs silent. He looks to the Traveler.

There is a daunting pressure.

"What troubles you?" The Speaker steps toward Osiris.

Osiris inhales sharply. "You have read my reports?"

"Of course." The Speaker loosens his posture. "I value your council."

"We were so close. A moment in the wrong place." Osiris looks to the Speaker.

The Speaker nods. "Yes. But the Light guided your path."

A noose awaiting a misstep.

"I did not see the Traveler on the Six Fronts."

The Traveler dwarfs Osiris. "But you did, my son. It was in the fire that saved your brothers and sisters. It was in the Arc bolts that ripped through their armies. The violet shields that held the line—"

"Do not romanticize this burden. We wield a weapon."

The Speaker shakes his head. "The Light wields you, Osiris. You are what you make of it. A glorious extension of its majesty, in many directions."

Osiris paces at cadence with his words. "Then it would do well to speak clearly. To better direct me."

The Speaker cocks his head. "Without will? Then it would be no better than the Darkness."

"I am asking only for guidance; it is a delicate game we are playing." Osiris's voice, distressed.

Regal again, the Speaker motions to the stone garden. "Will you sit with me?"

<|endoftext|>

14: Patron

Stone-laid roads lead Saint-14 through the City. He walks them most days when he is home. When time permits.

The people wave. They cheer.

They bring offerings of their support and adoration.

Breads. Tokens. Wonderfully spun tassels and bands of royal purple hue.

His name had become synonymous with the Guardians.

An image to be adhered to; to be revered.

He smiles and shakes their hands.

He smiles and accepts their gifts.

Their joy is his.

He feels the weight of their royal ribbons around his neck, drawn tight by expectation.

His armor is faith. It slips and loosens in transit.

They sing together. He shares bread with the chorus of voices. He ties ribbons in their hair.

His joy is theirs.

They sing him a new song.

Their voices shine bright.

<|endoftext|>

15: Shepherd

Father and son stand atop the Tower.

The City blooms as they watch, radiating outward into a lively sprawl beneath the Traveler. Six Fronts was a rallying cry, ringing out to call Humanity to its next great cause. Thousands made their way to the Last City's gates, looking for credence to the many promises their hope had whispered during dead long nights.

"Did you imagine it would be like this when we first arrived?" Saint-14 leans against the Tower railing.

The Speaker looks over the bustling City streets. "Not in so little time, but I always believed we were capable."

"Do you remember when I first awoke?"

"I do."

"You told me that I would be an example for others to follow. How did you know this?"

"I didn't know; I believed in your potential."

The Traveler dominates a wash of blue, beams of light cascade across its surface into a twinkling dome against the lonesome far-off mountains.

"I often think of the choices we make. Whether they are the right ones. Whether those we have lost would agree. I try to honor their memories."

"We are fragile beings. Exos as well. It is good to question, to look within yourself." He grips Saint-14's shoulders and pulls his stance straight. "While I cannot begin to know the sacrifices you have made for us, I can tell you that loss is a part of life's sweetness."

Saint nods. "It has taught me many lessons." He raises his head.

They watch the City shift and flow.

"What will you do when we have won?"

The Speaker patiently stitches the words together in his mind.

"Geppetto and I searched many barren miles before we crossed the Cosmodrome. She had almost given up hope." He turns to face Saint-14. "That little Light knew exactly where to find you, once she was given the proper place to look." The Speaker chuckles. "There is no before or after, my son. We try, we doubt, we grow. It is all one path."

<|endoftext|>

16: Politics

"Osiris, I'm sorry. Ikora cannot assume your role."

"Ikora, leave please."

She turns to him with a keen tone, "Is it rude for the subject of the conversation to be present?"

"She may stay if she wishes. She deserves to hear why." The Speaker nods to Ikora.

She responds, "I agree."

"Fine."

"Good, now. Osiris—

"Let her stand before the Consensus." Osiris composes himself. "She is more than capable of assuming my duties, and…" hushed now, "she's in good hands here."

The Speaker leans forward. "Osiris. You cannot be allowed to elect your replacement; it took many conversations for us to reach where we are. The Consensus has expectations of the Vanguard. There are duties to be met."

"Speaker; I understand." Ikor—

"Politics."

The Speaker straightens his posture. "Agreements that keep the peace, so that we may fight for a future, together."

"Ikora would be my best representative. She is not a replacement."

"You must be present to perform your duties."

Osiris's eyes bore into the Speaker's mask. "What is my duty if not to protect this City? We are a point in the darkness. We cannot wait for the threats to arrive. Someone has to meet them."

The Speaker stands.  "We will. In time, together."

Osiris sighs, "Be patient…" A lick of malice bled from the word.

<|endoftext|>

17: Transient

Geppetto-3-1-294:
Hello Sagira, Brother Osiris.
Please maintain this open communication channel.

Sagira-3-1-294:
Oh, good idea. Make us a sub-net.

Osiris-3-7-294:
I will miss my next rendezvous.

Saint-3-8-294:
Is that so? I suspected this would happen when your trip suddenly became longer. I will tell the Vanguard that your ship was damaged and has caused delay. Do not make me lie for you again. I do not like lying. It upsets Geppetto.
Additionally, tell Sagira that I remember her promise and that I am owed a debt if she does not keep it.

Osiris-4-0-294:
Sagira does not gamble.

Saint-4-1-294:
It is not gambling. It is different from gambling. She cannot be nagging you enough. Your response time on our letters is terrible.
Please try my suggestion. I believe it will help.

Osiris-5-14-294:
Is Ikora well? Are you?

Saint-5-14-294:
We are both disappointed, but we will live.
Father cannot defend you any longer. 

Osiris-5-14-294:
I will speak for myself.

Saint-5-17-294:
That was quite the show.
Where are you?

Osiris-6-2-294:
Finding answers.
We will speak soon.

Osiris-9-29-296:
Where are you?

<|endoftext|>

18: Blame

Solar Wind
The sand sweeps weeping
Across a stone.
It breaks on glass in keeping
With its own.

You were right.
It helped.

<|endoftext|>

19: Reunion

Saint-14 watches vessels dip in and out of the hangar. The cadence of docking and disembarking ships finds rhythm in the busy city. It is routine. Practiced. Peaceful.

A visitor steps aboard the Gray Pigeon.

Geppetto turns to welcome them. "Greetings, Brother Osiris. You are a welcome sight. Is Sagira with you?"

"Hello Geppetto. Sagira visits Ikora." Osiris sits on the gangway of the Gray Pigeon. He runs a ribbon through his fingers. "Hello Saint."

"Osiris? I wondered if this meeting would be with one of your projections."

"I would not…"

---

"Quite the shrine they've made for you. Are you dying?"

Saint-14 laughs.

"It is good to see you again, Brother."

<|endoftext|>

Dreaming

You are the first to dream.

In the dream, you are shaping coarse sand with your hands. You lift a handful, and it feels like the shifting of mountains. You drag your fingertip through the dirt to make a twisting line and hear the roar of moving water. You breathe and feel the rush of clean, bright wind in your hair.
 
Suddenly, you are far, far, far up in the air, higher than you've ever been. You have gone to the very top of Freehold's tallest skyscrapers, but this is much higher, and you see the world below with much greater fidelity. It is a beautiful green world, much greener than any place you've ever seen before.

It looks like home.

---

I am the first to dream.

The dreams can happen at any time. A veil drops in front of my eyes and I see strange, moving images. I am someone else, or I am myself, reimagined. I can't say. In the dreams, I shape planets with my own hands.

At first, I believe I am mad.

The clinicians at BrayWell call it "interplanetary relocation maladjustment psychosis": a psychobabble catch-all for mental disturbances that they can't explain. Other people, searching for certainty, call it "prophecy." But all I can offer is a loose, tangled connection that I painstakingly unravel when I dream.

|| I am drawn to a bright and attentive star. I speak to it through movement, through feeling. It understands implicitly. ||

Now, I stand before a crowd. Their murmuring is the bone-deep rumble of shifting tectonic plates.

A screen behind me plays looping, blurry footage of the Traveler terraforming Venus. The images radiate with pale light. We've watched this footage many times.

|| I glide through space as if through water, tugged in nine directions by nine impulses. ||

In front of the crowd, I sway a little, a copse of trees bending in a dream-wind. I can't help it. I'm dreaming more often than not.

|| There is whispering from the deep-dark, alluring and terrifying—a reminder of things left behind, bittersweet and abhorrent. ||

A crackle of static on the screen behind me brings me back to earth, resettling my feet firmly on the ground. These people have come here for my insights.

I lean forward and speak to the crowd. Four tenets, aching with truth:
 
The Traveler is a force of benevolence. 

The Traveler is a sentient being with free will, dreams, hopes, and fears.

The Traveler will save us.

The Traveler will leave us.

<|endoftext|>

Severing

You feel it before it happens.

It has happened before. You feel deep in your bones that this thing has chased you across galaxies like an unshakeable dread. It strives to undo. It will undo you. It will undo all of us.

First is suffocation, and then pain. The pain isn't localized to any part of you, but to all of you and beyond you. You want to run, but you are pulled in all directions by opposite and equal forces that hold you perfectly still.

It is inescapable this time. You are losing everything that you were. You are bleeding silver into the air like the air is water, and you watch your silver-blood float away from your body. Empty. Empty. Empty.

---

I am the Speaker who witnesses the end of the world.

Through it all, I am overwhelmed by torrents of sharp, static images, sometimes so fast and constant that I can't see or hear. The Traveler is babbling: telling me everything and nothing all at once, in fast, stereoscopic, waking nightmares. I am myself and not myself.

And I || am stuck in a web of black spider silk, frozen in the mind-numbing silence of space || have no answers.

The fall isn't quick. It happens over weeks and months: cataclysmic disasters, natural and unnatural, flattening human settlements on every planet || that I have made, I have shaped, my work, laid flat ||. Earthquakes. Tidal waves. Solar flares. Cyclones, sinkholes, exploding lakes, wildfires. Unknown, untreatable plagues raze populations in hours. Water goes black with unknown poisons || forced down my throat ||. The ground opens up and swallows entire cities || and I am sick sick sick ||.

This has happened before. I'd watched in my dreams the cities that fell, alien cities, torn down by a wind so fierce that it flattened an entire world || and it is not my fault ||.

But this is different. The Traveler has not left us. Something new || half-remember and wished-forgotten, this false-sister || has arrived.

I || don't want to abandon you || watch on crackling video feeds as people try to escape the outer planets. Exodus ships burn || like I will burn || up with thousands upon thousands of souls aboard. We gather in frightened, huddled || trapped, stuck, doomed || groups in relief outposts, hoping against hope.

I try to aid the relief effort but my thoughts || run || become more and more scattered. I can't || run || keep separate my own mind || run || and the || run run RUN RUN || Traveler's.

Then, suddenly, silence.

And it's the silence that truly breaks me.

<|endoftext|>

Waking

I am the first Speaker to see a Ghost.

The way we tell it, after the Collapse, the Traveler cut itself into a thousand tiny pieces and sent them out into the world.

These tiny pieces are drawn to me, and to others like me, like moths. The first time I saw them, I thought they were surveillance drones, but up close, they were nothing like our old technology, not really. The way they move seems organic and natural. They spin their shells like they are ruffling feathers; their little forward-facing lights blink like eyes.

"We're called Ghosts," one of them said to me once, hovering at my shoulder as I tended a cook-fire.

"Why?" I asked, gentle, casual. They're all different, these Ghosts. Many of them are like children, curious and friendly. Some are world-weary from the moment they're born.

The Ghost spun his silver petals, considering. "Because we're searching, I think."

It's a good enough answer for me. I'm searching, too.

I let the little Ghosts follow me. We talk about what the Traveler was like before the Collapse. They like to hear it, and I like to remember. Deep in their core, they remember, too, I think. They remember a time when they were all one piece. Still, they like to ask what the Traveler told me, and I recount all the dreams I can still remember. I haven't dreamed since the Collapse, and this is almost—almost, almost—like dreaming again.

Today, at twilight, one of the shy and quiet Ghosts who has been lingering at my side asks if I will follow her out into the valley. I should say no, but she sounds hopeful. And I am curious.

We travel for several hours. The land here is recovering—not just from the Collapse, but from the time before it. Resources for our settlement are scarce, but nature is creeping back in, and nature is cruel now. It's been starving and confused for decades, jostled out of its natural order, and now we reap the consequences. Wolves steal our livestock. Mange-ridden bears wander through our compound late at night, pawing at our doors. The land is so thick with the memory of poison that it won't grow crops.

We protect ourselves from this recovering world as best we can, and we rarely go out at night. But I'm drawn by a curiosity that feels beyond me.

The Ghost leads me to a barn with a sagging roof. She asks me to wait out of sight—she says, "I think you'll scare her." I don't fully understand what she means.

I crouch and watch as she hovers over the years-old remains of a person, barely recognizable as something that was once living. The Ghost floats over the body nervously, and then scans it with pale light. In front of my eyes, flesh grows over old bones and tattered rags stitch themselves together. The person, a woman, gasps and sits up.

I can't believe it.

The Ghost hovers close to her new companion and says something quiet and reassuring. I can't hear. I feel amazed, and then jealous, and then ashamed.

<|endoftext|>

Longing

I am the first Speaker to be taken prisoner.

The greatest surprise isn't being captured; it's being captured by a Dreg.

In the end, when they drag me, tied and bound, into a damp cave miles out from my settlement, it's three Dregs. I look around for a Kell or a Priest—someone in charge—but we're alone. There are no Pikes or Ether tanks, no banners, no Servitors. I sit on a rock and look at my captors, more perplexed than afraid.

The shame of being captured by something so little and young-looking, when for so long we've managed to defend our settlement from their hulking Captains, is a little bit humbling.

The Dreg who grabbed me fidgets with a mask. One of his companions watches, while the other half-heartedly points an Arc spear at me. They seem uncertain. Nervous. Probably they weren't supposed to have done this.

I wait patiently until the Dreg straps the mask to his face.

"You," he says in a crackling, distorted voice. I'm floored. They've managed to make a translator. "You are the mouth of the Great Machine."

There have been negotiations with the Fallen since they arrived on Earth. Never successful, nearly always fatal, but they've happened. So I'm aware that some of the Risen know their alien language, and some of the high-level Fallen know ours. Dregs, though. It's another surprise.

And… the "mouth of the Great Machine"…

Hm.

"I was," I say carefully. The Dreg narrows all four of his eyes as his tech translates my words. If he understands the distinction between "I am" and "I was," he doesn't show it. Instead, he nods.

"You will tell us the Great Machine's words."

It doesn't actually sound like a command. I wonder if, with better translation tech, he would've said "please."

I don't say anything. If I reveal what I can't do, what I don't know, they'll probably kill me.

The other two Dregs gather around their companion, watching him eagerly. Now and then, they look at me. The one holding the spear has let her grip grow slack, and the spear is tipped down to point at the ground. The Fallen have surprisingly expressive faces. What I pick up from them is not aggression or hatred, but fearful anticipation.

The Dreg with the mask nods again, not discouraged by my silence. This time, when he speaks, I can hear his hope, even through the mask: "Why did the Great Machine leave us?"

I stare back at him.

Any fear I felt before dissipates. Instead, what I feel is a grief partially forgotten in the chaos of trying to survive—and a deep and abiding kinship with the enemies who have pursued us.

My voice is very quiet when I finally speak.

"I don't know."

The other two Dregs look at their friend, waiting. His expression twists with confusion, and then disappointment. There's anger there, too, but it's overpowered by something else. A very familiar sorrow.

We sit in silence for a long time.

<|endoftext|>

Singing

I am the first Speaker to never dream.

At least, I think that's true. In the days following the Collapse, any Speakers who survived were scattered to the wind, traveling with groups of refugees across the ruined wasteland that Earth became. Aside from the man who taught me, I've never met another Speaker in my life. For all I know, I'm the last one alive.

Before the Collapse, Speakers were chosen for their ability to hear the Traveler through detailed, lucid dreams. Since the dreams have stopped, there are other signs. Ghosts follow us. When we do dream, we see a strange and blinding white light. We are prone to headaches.

My mentor couldn't teach me how to interpret dreams, so he taught me in hypotheticals. I had to imagine what the dreams might be like. I had to speculate why the Traveler might come back to us and when. Like all Speakers, I memorized the four tenets: The Traveler is good. The Traveler is sentient. The Traveler will save us. The Traveler will leave us.

Sometimes I worry the Traveler has already left us.

My mentor died of a wasting sickness two years ago, and I've tried to live as his replacement. But where he was a living memory of when the Traveler was awake, I have only his memories, secondhand, imperfectly understood. I can't give answers. I can't make the Traveler speak.

Or, at least, I couldn't.

For weeks, I have worked in secret on a project, gathering scrap metal and old, broken things left over from the time before. I've cobbled it together, tinkered with the mix of strange and half-understood technology, tried to calibrate it to my needs.

A long time ago, long before the Collapse, astrophysicists recorded sounds from the planets in our solar system and turned them into music. They translated plasma waves and radio emissions into eerie, musical rumbles, roars, whistles, and hisses. The Traveler makes sounds, too. Speakers have listened to its music for many years, in the form of dreams.

Carefully, lovingly, I build a mask. An amplifier.

No one knows about it but me. I won't get their hopes up, even though mine are sky high as I put the finishing touches on it. It's not beautiful like our old technology was. It is scuffed and bent and rusted, like everything we own now. But if I'm right, if I can do this, it will do beautiful things.

I can't bear to fail. I have failed at everything else so far.

When I'm finished, I wear the mask. Pieces of it, not sanded down, are rough and sharp against my face, but I dream for the first time in my life.

|| I have cried out unheard for so long that my voice is raw. ||

<|endoftext|>

Building

You are the last remaining star.

In your dreams, you see yourself suspended in bright but flickering Light, staring out over a world half-destroyed. You see thousands of pieces of yourself in that world, stumbling through it like infants, wandering in labyrinthine ruins they don't understand.

For a moment, you feel in your body everything that they feel. The elation of success. The pain of failure. The candle-snuff of death. The gasping of rebirth. You feel it all at once.

---

I am the last Speaker.

I am the child of two self-exiles, and I live in a settlement in the shadow of a looming mountain. There are about three hundred of us, and we've lived here for nearly seven years. When we first arrived, we were under the jurisdiction of a Warlord named Cathal. He offered us protection for a high price, requisitioning a third of our supplies and conscripting nearly half our people to his cause. The actual protection he provided was limited. The Warlords used our valley like a battlefield, crashing through like giants who couldn't see the lives they were ending. But they could. They saw us. They just didn't care.

The Iron Lords drove Cathal out nearly a year ago, and we've lived in comfortable independence since then, with little oversight from our Risen saviors. Our people voted for that. The Iron Lords saved us, but they would be no different from the Warlords if they also wished to rule us.

Now I sit in negotiations with one of them, a woman named Lady Efrideet.

"You're free to decide either way," she says. "But if you say yes, you'll have an armed escort."

Three other people sit with me: our elected mayor, our most experienced physician, and our oldest resident. We are the people our settlement chose as representation. Beside me, a silver Ghost spins his shell, floating at my shoulder, watching Efrideet. He's followed me for over a year now, and still hasn't found his chosen. He's good company.

|| I have given so much of myself already, but I give more. I become a beacon. I call my children home. ||

"A consolidated population like that, all in one place," our mayor says. She sounds weary. She's been in her position for nearly sixty years. "It would draw Warlords to us like flies."

"Don't worry about the Warlords," Efrideet says, with the cool assurance of someone who only half-understands our worry to begin with. "Their days are numbered. Their way of life is incompatible with the Iron Decree, and so…" She shrugs.

Her nonchalance is unrelatable, but I think I trust her. I trust the Iron Lords. They've given us little reason to doubt them.

"How would the city be governed?" I ask.

Efrideet shrugs again. "That seems like the kind of thing you put to a vote." She taps her fingers on the table, impatient, but only a little. "We'll just build the place and bring people there. We can defend the walls, but we're not going to dictate what happens inside them. This is a joint venture. A collaboration."

My companions exchange looks, considering.

Efrideet watches us. Like most of the Risen, she tries to look impassive. Unaffected. But if you listen closely, she's trying to convince us. She wants this. "Listen," she says. "Risen and non-Risen have lived in their separate corners for too long. We're all people. That's all the Iron Lords are trying to say. We should live together." She pauses. "There are things we can teach each other."

Two weeks later, once we've packed up everything we can carry, we leave for the place where we'll build the Last Safe City of Earth.

|| I wish for something to grow in my shadow. ||

<|endoftext|>

Growing

You are waiting for something to happen.

You are suspended and weightless, but so heavy in your heart. You have a child's voice: quiet, easily lost in a crowd. You try to shout and be heard, but there is only one little star in a sea of thousands that can hear you. It only understands a fraction of your words, but it tries, and that has to be enough.

Life goes on beyond your control, as it always has. That is the curse of your creation. The things you build are not your own.

And then another star blinks into existence.

---

I am the last Speaker, and I sit at a table with the Vanguard while the City around us fights over nothing.

"We built this City to find some kind of unity," Tallulah says. She has her hands on the table and is leaning forward, like she might jump over it. "We're breaking apart from the inside."

Silence falls over the room. I am trying to think.

"What does the Traveler say?" Saint-14 asks, quietly. Everyone looks at me.

I breathe in through my nose, breathe out slowly. "About the factions?" I ask. "Or about people killing each other in our streets? This is not what the Traveler wanted. That much I can tell you."

"That was the direct result of creating us," Osiris says, leaning back in his seat. He is stone-faced, as always. "Violence. Does the Traveler truly know what it wants?"

I try to hide my frustration, and I'm glad my face is hidden by my mask.

The truth is this: I cannot say for certain what the Traveler wants, or whether it knows what it wants. The Traveler does not speak to me in words, but in dreams. Dream language is cramped. The messages come from the Traveler, disintegrate on the way to me, and reform into something else. I am an interpreter more than a Speaker.

But uncertainty has been the death of us before, and it will be again if we are not vigilant.

So what I say is, "The Traveler has always wanted to protect humanity, on its own or through Guardians. We need to enact that will."

"With all due respect to both of you," Tallulah says, eyeing Osiris and me. "This isn't about the Traveler. This is about what happens when people come together without anyone to really lead them." She taps her foot. She's nervous. Unusual for Tallulah. "Let this go on a little longer, and this is the same as the Dark Age. It's just Warlords, packed into a tighter pen."

"A body of representatives would help," Saint-14 says. "Something to allow all sides to be heard."

"Every side has a voice, but not all voices should be given the same weight," I say, shaking my head. "Some of these ideas are dangerous. We should determine which factions can continue to exist, and give them an official channel through which to air their grievances and pursue their needs."

"Which ideas are dangerous, Speaker?" Osiris asks. He is watching me, steadily. "And who decides that?"

"This is not a fight," Saint-14 says. "We have enough of those ahead of us."

"We will hear from each of the factions," I say, ignoring Osiris. Some decision is better than no decision. "Give them the opportunity to plead their case, save for those who have resorted to outright violence."

"Well, then we've got to get rid of Echelon South, for one," Tallulah lists, counting on her fingers. "And those Binary Star idiots, too. Trinary? Binary? Whatever. Anyway, there are plenty of fingers pointed at this new group, too. Monarchy something."

"If anyone can prove the rumors, we exile their leaders," I say, holding up my hand. "The factions that stay will argue their case. Of those that have a valuable viewpoint to bring to the governance of the City, we create a council."

"This sets a dangerous precedent, Speaker," Osiris says. We will have this argument again later, I can already tell. "I hope you're prepared to walk this slope."

We vote. Osiris is the only no. Then, after an inquiry into the violence, we form the Consensus.

<|endoftext|>

Searching

Somewhere, the other tiny star is calling out.

You try to answer, but it cannot hear you. Not without help. You want to help, but you are paralyzed. Your limbs are crushed and your heart beats so slowly. You've never known weakness so intimately as you do now.

You can only wait.

---

I am the last Speaker, but I have been searching for the next. I stand on the balcony of my small apartment with Lady Efrideet, who wishes to leave the Last Safe City of Earth.

"I suppose I can't convince you to stay."

Efrideet stands with her arms crossed, looking out over the City. "No," she says.

"And you certainly don't need to ask permission."

She laughs, just a little. "No." She leans out over the balcony railing, looking down. Guardians have no fear of heights. She would probably happily hang over the rail by her ankles if the mood struck her. "But I was thinking about what you said before." She turns to look at me, but the featureless mask serves me once more, betraying nothing. "About finding the next Speaker."

Ah.

I've been waiting for decades for someone to come to me, to tell me their child is having strange, blinding dreams and headaches. To see a Guardian stroll through the Tower, flocked by unpaired Ghosts. I've interviewed hundreds of people via long-distance comms. I've consulted the Traveler. I've walked daily among the crowds of civilians and Guardians at the entrance of the City. And still, I've found no one I can hand down my mask to. 

Before Saint-14 left for Mercury, I'd thought that maybe he could take my place. That I might be able to teach him. That's not the way it's usually done, but he has such a gentle heart. He has the right temperament. Sometimes I think he's better suited to it than I am.

But he hasn't come back.

I clear my throat. "Yes," I say. "Right. I still haven't found them. But I know they're out there."

"Well," Efrideet says. "I'm going 'out there.' I can look."

It's a good offer. But I am still waiting for him to come back, all the same.

"That's why you want to leave the City?" I ask instead of condoning the proposal. "You're the one who convinced me to come here."

"I'm glad I did," she says, lifting her chin. "But no, that's not it. There's something about this life that isn't… working for me. Seems to me that a Guardian should have more ways of marking this world than with a gun."

"That's not how I think of you."

She pauses, then leans on the railing. "Sure," she says. "But it's stuck in my muscle memory, all the same. Hundreds of years of pointing and shooting, Speaker…" She shakes her head. "I don't know what it is yet, but I want to find a different way."

This conversation feels so familiar. I was so young the last time we had it.

"I understand," I say, softer now. "That's a noble cause."

She shrugs. "And maybe I come back with a little baby Speaker."

She doesn't say it, but the "if I come back at all" hangs in the air between us.

"I would appreciate your help," I say finally. "I can't wear this mask forever."

<|endoftext|>

Suffering

Something terrible is going to happen.

In this dream, a horrible, brutal hand stretches toward you. But this is not the old enemy you know, it is something new. Something that hopes to use you more than it hopes to destroy you, but it's willing to settle for either.

The cage is worse than the paralysis of silence. It is worse than the grasping tendrils of dark. It is too tangible. It is too unfamiliar. This is not why you came here. This is not what you deserve.

The fear is enough to make you want to leave.

---

I am the last Speaker, and I dream that the Traveler will leave us.

It shouldn't be a surprise. This truth has been passed down from Speaker to Speaker for generations: the Traveler is good, the Traveler is sentient, the Traveler will save us, and the Traveler will leave us. For many, many years, I believed that the prophecy of the Traveler's departure was misinterpreted, and fulfilled instead by its silence after the Collapse. I stopped preaching that final tenet. It only served to frighten people.

My dreams, which have always been infrequent and fleeting, come more regularly. They are more confusing than ever, more disruptive. I once so rarely dreamed while awake, but now it happens all the time.

|| I am silent again. I am gone. I leave behind a yawning void. ||

My dreams forecast a terrible future: a future without the Traveler's Light. I see them all falling, Guardians and Lightless alike, toppled by the Traveler's absence. I don't understand why it happens, and I don't know when. But I know it is coming.

The details almost don't matter.

I've lived my whole life bringing people into the Light of the Traveler. I've made promises and assurances all based on faith. I've crushed doubt down into myself as far as it will go, made myself sick with it, because doubt is better left unspoken.

|| I do not recognize my world. I want to flee. ||

It's an easy decision in the end.

I tell no one. Until I can understand better what's coming, sharing this information would only be dangerous. It would create panic. A mass exodus from the City. Maybe the system, if Dead Orbit has a say in it. There will be fear and anger and violence, all based on a dream I can't explain or verify with proof.

If I can understand this better, if I can make sense of it, then I can fix it. Surely.

So I go on as if nothing has happened. I attend Consensus meetings. I discuss Hidden intelligence with Ikora. I receive reports and news from our scouts outside the City, and I consult with Zavala. People come to me with questions, as always. They ask how to cope with loss, and change, and fear—all daily realities of this life. They ask how to cope with doubt.

I lie through my teeth and tell them to trust in the Traveler.

|| Empty. Empty. Empty. ||

The dreams continue. The headaches get worse. But I believe so strongly that this knowledge would destroy our way of life, and I hold it so tightly that it poisons me.

It's all for nothing.

I'm in my apartment when I hear the first ground-shaking explosion, and I go outside to see what's happened.

I see the Red Legion fleet darkening our skies, and I realize I have made a terrible mistake.

<|endoftext|>

Asher: Observation

Man of science though he was, the first thing Asher Mir did was shoot the damned thing.

The Pyramid hovered inside Io's atmosphere, close enough to be impacted by a projectile flung at sufficient speed. In the time it took Asher to blink twice, he knew the angle of attack and the mass of the projectile.

Asher finished building the mounted railgun before his coffee had cooled.

He charged the magnetic coils, waited for the wind to die down, and broadsided the ship. He had expected the projectile to hit a Kinetic barrier, or best-case scenario, impact the Pyramid and cause utterly infinitesimal damage.

Instead, at the moment of impact, the projectile stopped existing.

Asher's brow furrowed while an irrepressible smile crept over his face. His metal arm clicked and hummed gently of its own accord. This Pyramid had the audacity to park in front of his laboratory and pull such a cheap trick?

Clearly, it had not thought it would meet Asher Mir.

He assembled another missile, one with a detectable radiation signature and a radio signal. He fired it at the Pyramid. It similarly disappeared on impact, its signals snuffed out, no longer detectable from Io's surface.

Another payload followed, this one a miniature relay station. He routed it through his console and fired. At the moment it touched the Pyramid, it transmitted a spike of radiation and radio broadcast.

Asher smirked. They were still there, held in the field of the Pyramid. Visually undetectable, signals squelched, but still physically there.

How the Pyramid was accomplishing this feat was unimportant at the moment, though his mind flooded with fantasies of zero-point energy. The question that gave him pause was the what: What was the ship doing to the projectiles as they sat suspended in space in the periphery of its loathsome shape?

And why?

<|endoftext|>

Sloane: Overseer

Deputy Commander Sloane watched the overloaded Vanguard skiff dip close to the waves. "Watch it!" she barked into the communicator, and the craft straightened out. "That's liquid methane down there, and if it don't kill you, the Leviathan will."

"C'mon, ain't no Leviathan," said the pilot, his voice crackling. He was some boy from the City who couldn't have been more than 17 years old. "And if that's methane, how come you don't even got a helmet on?"

Sloane grinned. She wasn't used to backtalk. "Because I moisturize, short-timer," Sloane said and squelched the comms.

A Fallen Ketch screamed overhead, and Sloane was on the catwalk outside the rig in a flash. She bellowed at the men working on the deck to cover clear of the cargo as she drew her Scout Rifle and dropped to a knee.

The first few Dregs were dead before they hit the ground, but the winds whipping off the seas sent her next shots wide. She figured the landing party would go for the cargo shuttle over her men, so she spun to take a sightline toward the craft, but the things were charging for the supplies instead.

She cursed and leapt over the railing, landing like a crash of lightning. Her earpiece sprang to life. "Siren's Watch, this is supply craft Vienna Stinger looking for a place to put down."

"Landing pad five, south side!" she shouted over the crack of her rifle. "Offload what you brought, and I'll have a supply team swing by in a minute."

She plugged two more Dregs and the Ketch's engines changed from a roar to a whine. A halfhearted volley of Wire Rifle fire spattered the landing pad from the Ketch as it blasted away.

Sloane called out to her team. No fatalities, nothing taken but two crates of fresh supplies. She ordered the team to the next landing pad and began climbing the long stairs back to her perch.

They hadn't hit while they were loading the Golden Age technology for shipment back to the City. They were after the supplies. They were leaving.

She looked up at the Pyramid in the sky and frowned.

The door to her office closed and sealed with a hiss. A soft blue light on the panel promised that the seal was airtight. Sloane walked across the room to watch the seas through the open hole blown in the side of her rig.

<|endoftext|>

Ana: Frayed

She had tried everything. The great Bray. A lineage that promised to save them. For all her genius and moxie, this was beyond her.

Rasputin lay dying in a dozen empty screens splayed out around Ana's command station. She could visualize the bleeding code running through her fingers. Zavala's voice was in her ear, as ambient haze—relegated to the background of her mind like distant gunfire. The image of the Pyramid's distortion wave was still raw. This wasn't an attack. It was a command. A lazy dismissal of all their best laid plans.

There were no explosions. No blaring sirens or sparks of dramatic electricity. Nothing to combat or fix. Just a Guardian walled in silent black glass and disbelief.

She had been so sure.

Ana's eyes tracked Jinju as the Ghost sped from console to console, attaching strings of Light to each. They slowed her as she went, buried under some load.

"Ana," Jinju's voice strained under crushing distortion. "I think I've got him. Most of him, but not for long."

The words cut through the distant gunfire. "What?" Ana asked. Her voice came softly at first, unsure what form to take as the information processed. "What?!"

Jinju groaned and whispered an exasperated, "Pillory… Engram…"

"It's not ready."

"Ana, now!"

"He'll go insane! I… can't."

The Light tethers attached to Jinju began to pop one by one. "It's this or nothing!"

The prospect sent Ana tearing across the room. She belted a command into the air, and a floor safe opened in response. Ana snatched the dodecahedron enclosure from the safe and braced it in front of Jinju.

"Jinju, do it!"

The Ghost's shell reformed to forge a directing structure before her core erupted with Light and data. A stream of pure information beamed into the Engram, filling it with spiraling wisps of Light.

"Did you…?"

"As much as I could."

Outside the windows, bolts of atmospheric friction dragged flames through the sky as Warsats plummeted from low-orbit defensive positions. Their impacts were distant.

<|endoftext|>

Vance: Canary

Brother Vance's smile fell as the Titan entered his sanctum. The smell was unmistakable: ancient gunpowder, burnt oil, scorched Vex fluid, the burnt tang of steel overused through a hundred lifetimes.

"You have the Perfect Paradox," Vance said, his voice as steady as he could manage. He extended his hands. "May I?"

The Titan shrugged, then dug into his pack for the Shotgun. He placed it in Vance's waiting hands.

He ran his fingers over the barrel and tested the weight of the stock. "Ah," he said. "Not the original Perfect Paradox, is it?"

The Titan stood in confusion. Vance waited for a moment with his head tilted before he continued.

"You did not claim this weapon from the tomb of Saint-14, but instead through some Fractaline-powered tesseract, yes?"

The Titan nodded, then stood for a long moment looking at the blind man. "That Sundial made it," he said finally.

Vance's grip tightened on the gun. It was heavy, loaded with seven—no, eight shells. Tactical mag. Getting this one had taken some time.

"And how many timelines did you thoughtlessly tether to our own for this weapon? Our world now bears the strain of how many additional realities in exchange for this hollow abomination?"

Vance's mind swam at the thought of the infinite web that pulled on the Shotgun. "How much Fractaline did you sacrifice for this? Four hundred fragments?" He paused, aghast. "More?"

"It's got a trench barrel," said the Titan helpfully.

"Remove yourself from my sanctum," Vance said, placing the Shotgun down like a dead animal. "You have accelerated the end of all things, and I must update my prophecies accordingly."

<|endoftext|>

Asher: Prediction

Asher Mir cursed his way across Io.

As he picked his way across the rocky outcrops, he cursed the loose soil underfoot, cursed his oversized pack, cursed the roving Taken, cursed the kick of his Silicon Neuroma Rifle against his shoulder.

He looked up at the Pyramid funneling its foul energies down into the Cradle and sneered. Well-read as he was, he didn't have the energy to arrange the required words.

It was late during what passed for night on Io, and while Asher was tired, he hiked on diligently. He stopped only once, briefly, to study a snail whose shell was growing tiny clusters of crystalline black obelisks.

He crept down through the cavernous spaces beneath the Cradle. Unfamiliar roots protruded from the earthen walls. He calmly observed the pattern of a twitching Shrieker, and his calculated ricochet sent a band of Taken roaring down the wrong pathway. He passed unmolested.

Eris was in her meager camp near the twisted roots of the enormous Tree. She knelt near a beam of light coming from far above, which filtered through the pith of the Tree to strike an unnatural splash of cambium petals. Asher noticed the smells of sap and burned cooking oil.

She said she was pleased to see him, though when she sought to clarify the cadence of his supply drops, he felt she might be put off by the unexpected visit.

As he unpacked what he had brought her, she explained the Tree, the messages, the whispers. The thrilling struggle to glimpse the face of the unknown, even if that unknown may be trying to kill you. She was smiling as she spoke. Asher understood exactly what she meant.

He rested by the fire. Nearby was a small table that held samples of Hive chitin, clippings from the Tree, ashy soil, and an open notebook that Asher saw was a personal journal, which he quickly flipped shut with distaste.

He reached again into his pack. He brought forth a bottle of fine golden spirits (from when some towering ignoramus misunderstood his request for isopropyl alcohol) and placed it on the table. He had brought two clean glasses, nestled ridiculously in the boxy shipping case of a large graduated cylinder. He removed one and placed it gently next to the bottle.

Asher coughed, relaced his boots, then stood and shouldered his pack.

"You have things taken care of, yes?" he said to Eris.

"Certainly," she said, intent on the beam of swirling light.

He shifted and made a little noise in his throat. "I need to know that things will be taken care of," he said clearly.

Eris looked over and considered the man standing across from her. "To the best of my ability," she finally said.

Asher nodded and began his long walk back.

<|endoftext|>

Sloane: Wavebreaker

Deputy Commander Sloane was in a foul mood, and Amanda Holliday, bless her heart, had no idea.

Titan's waves crashed relentlessly against the massive support struts of Siren's Watch. Were things different, a crew would be down there right now, swinging between the mammoth legs, working to repair and stabilize.

But things weren't different.

"You can throw together a box girder and reinforce it, no problem," Amanda said.

"You can. I can't," said Sloane. While she had built a few walls, Amanda had an enviable engineering background to fall back on, though it seemed she wasn't much of a teacher.

Amanda's hologram slurped ramen. "How long do you need it to last for?"

"Long enough to get it out of my mind," said Sloane. "Since it's started wobbling, I haven't even had time to worry about the Pyramid."

"Small favors!" chirped Amanda. Sloane ran a hand through her coarse hair.

"Come on," Amanda groaned. "You're sittin' on a mess of Golden Age technology on Titan. There's gotta be an engram with a bridge inside it."

Sloane stared flatly. That might actually be true, but Sloane didn't have time to hunt for lost technologies.

"Make a wave breaker, then! Tetrapods bolted against the strut, or better yet, something out in the sea to break the wave early."

"If you can't take it when it hits you, you go out and hit it before it gets started. Like this!" Amanda leaned forward and did something in her ramen bowl that Sloane obviously couldn't see.

"You're not looking," Amanda said, and tilted her bowl forward just enough to spill broth over her desk. She cried out with laughter.

"I'm hanging up now," said Sloane, and after a cheery wave at Amanda's melodramatic pout, she did.

The hologram faded out, leaving Sloane in the dark. She stayed there for a long time.

<|endoftext|>

Ana: Physics

Zavala set down two glasses. He watched Ana's face as he poured velvet-looking liquor and filled them. Her eyes were focused on the grains of his desk, how to the unobservant, they would fade away into the greater canvas of wood, indistinguishable from each other.

The Traveler hung behind him, buried in a darkening cloud, a part of and apart from the sky.

"I can't believe we lost," she said.

"We are not lost."

Zavala pushed a glass toward Ana.

"I froze. We still don't even know what—if we saved anything," she said.

"It's not so easy to act in the face of defeat. The prospect of a future is something we have to keep in mind."

Ana glared at Zavala. "Nothing we do is supposed to be easy. Isn't that the point? This was a stress test, and I buckled."

"Faith, Ana. You reminded me that we wrap ourselves in the doubt of past failures. Without you, the City would be ash and rubble, more than once."

Ana scooped the glass into her hand. She smelled the liquor, winced, and placed it back on the table. "You believed in me. Rasputin was my job."

"Yes, and he still is. A job for the future," Zavala said and sipped his drink. "Now we have a new job. Eris needs our support."

"Tell me everything isn't over."

"When Cayde passed, I saw the fracturing of the Vanguard as a path toward inevitable failure. Still, it has proved impossible to fill his seat. I believed I would be too weak to lead without the balance added by his… unique perspective. As it turns out, his life was but one in an eternity of choices."

"Zavala, I don't want—"

"Relax, I'm not offering you the job. Unless you killed Cayde, and we've had the wrong man this whole time?"

"If I did, would you forgive me?"

"I'd understand," he said and smiled. "Ikora told me back then that an object in motion stays in motion. I've always admired the phrase, but I must admit, it can be difficult to adhere to."

Ana shook her head. "That's just physics."

"A fundamental aspect of life." He watched Ana's mood lighten as she considered his words. "We find the footholds we can, and make the best step given the ground we have before us."

Ana nodded. "Whatever happened to Cayde's chicken?"

Zavala sighed. "I believe Saint has anointed it as some sort of 'Pigeon Lord.'"

Ana's locked jaw melted into a smile.

"Life does not wait for us, no matter how long we live it. Drink your drink," Zavala chuckled, his glass to his face. "Before the Lord of Pigeons summons us to attack the Pyramids."

<|endoftext|>

Vance: Auspex

The music rang clear and true. Brother Vance listened, his face a paroxysm of glory.

"It repeats," he whispered to himself and the young Warlock who was bent over the Infinite Forge, diligently crafting weapons from another age.

She listened politely, but heard nothing. She went back to her task.

"Why do none pity the phoenix?"

The Warlock looked up, startled. Vance was across from her, though she had not noticed his approach. His question came with no preamble, as if the two had been in the midst of a conversation.

"I'm sorry?" offered the Warlock.

"Endless rebirth, true, but each matched by a fiery death," Vance said. "No sooner does it clean the ash from its feathers does it fall, again, to flame."

The blind man turned and bathed his face in the glowing sunlight that streamed into his sanctum.

"And none speak of its song."

The Warlock thanked Vance for the use of his forge and stood to leave.

"You are more than welcome," he said without turning his head, though his vacant smile had grown kind. He gestured toward the tomes and scrolls on his desk.

"Help yourself to a prophecy, friend," he said. "I believe I have finally finished my studies."

<|endoftext|>

Asher: Conclusion

As Asher Mir watched his assistant's ship tear into orbit for the last time, it occurred to him that he had not expressed how truly satisfactory he had found some of their work.

He briefly entertained the thought of leaving a letter, but there were others more deserving of his thoughts. And if he worked in descending priority, he might never make it to his assistant, which would defeat the purpose of the exercise completely. Instead, he went to the Pyramidion.

The Vex are not born, yet not created. Desire to understand this conundrum brought Asher to Io. He reasoned that the Pyramid, with its alien resources and unknowable power, had likely come for the same purpose. The dark ship sought to take the secrets of the Vex for itself.

But Asher Mir had already staked his claim, and he was prepared to defend it.

He soon stood at the gate of the Pyramidion. The Vex security responded as he knew they would, and he was prepared. He piled their broken corpses on the plates and continued inside.

He destroyed the first hundred Vex, then the second. A Minotaur roared into being before him and he crushed its radiolarian core in his metal fist. He climbed forward over their clawing limbs. He slipped in the cooling roux of their dead fluid.

Asher swallowed a mouthful of blood and kept moving.

He paused by a whirling gate and watched the aperiodic waves, then stepped through at the only possible moment. He walked steadily through laser grids that seemed to bend around him. He hung calmly in a gravitational tourbillon as the ground beneath him flickered and shifted madly.

And the Vex began to observe.

The corridors of the Pyramidion were lined with glowing red eyes. The metal mannequins stood dumbly, twitching, shuddering as Asher passed.

A familiar area unfolded before him: a cubist sinkhole reeking with the flat, base stench of slate mud and bleach.

He looked where the sky should be and found another impossible shape; another fractal contradiction. Far above him, placid in its Penrose vortex, the vast radiolarian lake lapped gently at the metallic shores.

The man reached up to the lake with his metal arm. He then reached with his arm of flesh.

He reached with both, and he brought the lake down.

<|endoftext|>

Sloane: Riastrad

After she watched the Guardian's ship roar off Titan for the last time, Deputy Commander Sloane went into her office and put on the Golden Age technology she had claimed from the Hive.

The heavy power source hung from her shoulders like a bandolier. She draped it across her neck and stepped into the suit, vast and clumsy. As she bowed her head into the grey hood, a viewscreen appeared before her. She did not understand the language—not yet—but chose the green option.

With a hiss, the suit conformed to her shape. It was heavy, but she had full range of movement. She focused on her arm, concentrated, and the material scabbed into thick armored plates. That was something.

She tried to form Arc energy, but the suit blocked her Light, or perhaps she would have to learn how to flex her Light through the suit.

She selected another option with her eyes, and selected again to confirm. There was no pain as she felt the suit snake a cold tube through her side and coil somewhere near her stomach. That answered a few of her questions.

Sloane lurched outside. There was a storm, like Titan was trying to drive off the invader that sat lazily in its sky. She walked into the gale, and the rain beaded on her second skin. Each step was easier than the last as the suit adjusted to her gait.

A symbol flashed, and a Hive Thrall charged her. She gripped it by its neck and arm before tearing it apart. It was so easy.

She laughed then, and the suit interpreted it as a battle cry and amplified it; broadcasted it. The sound echoed off the discarded shipping containers on the rainy landing pads, echoed through Siren's Watch and up toward the Pyramid.

Lightning flashed in the sky, and the storm raged on.

<|endoftext|>

Ana: Black Box

As Ana Bray watched the Guardian's Sparrow rocket across Hellas Basin for the last time, she saw a confidant who had believed in her when no one else would. That faith, Zavala had reminded her, was a bond with more power than all the Warmind weapons in the system. It was a promise to go on—an agreement that there was still a future. Jinju had called it "reverse salvage." She knew a thing or two about building something from the wreckage of their past.

The building was nearly empty. She had sent as much tech to the Tower as they could handle: an entire freight vessel's worth, packed to bursting.

She turned to the large glass window overlooking silent Warsat cannons. There were no Cabal. The death buried beneath Mars had quieted. Valkyrie subroutines that could be maintained remotely remained active, just in case.

Jinju ran final checks on the jumpship. A dark Pyramid loomed overhead. An experimental Exo chassis was secured in the ship's cargo hold. One foot in front of the other.

<|endoftext|>

Vance: Passeri

After the Guardian left his sanctum for the last time, Brother Vance collected his few belongings and stepped onto the scorching surface of Mercury. He found the entrance to the Infinite Forest easily, as though he had practiced the journey endlessly in his mind, because he had.

This time, he went through.

The Forest roared. He was struck by the dizzying void of it. The echoes made no sense. He took his first step into the hallowed place and fell to his knees vomiting.

He struggled with his pack as a tempest beat on his eardrums. He withdrew his Infinite Simulacrum, impossibly small in this immense space, and with trembling fingers synchronized it to the frequency of the crack in the Forest. It ticked like a metronome and then…

Silence. The Forest was sealed.

Tentatively, Vance felt his way across the enormous stone he stood on. At the same time, he skipped effortlessly from the stone as if he had done so countless times before. At the same time, he soared. He was moving in every direction—falling, laughing, singing—down every path, into every reality, spreading his message of hope.

And the original, the true Vance, felt his infinite parallels erupt from him. He felt them bear him up as they passed. Thank you, he said wordlessly, unable to breathe from joy, and felt a hundred thousand touches of reassurance. He found he was weeping.

There, in the swirl of his golden echoes, Brother Vance lifted his voice and began his song:

"Some hope for—"

His own voice answered him from behind. "The future," it continued.

Vance leapt toward it. He recognized the feel of his own cloak, and his hands found its throat. Its form twisted, turning cold and sharp beneath his hands.

It threw Vance on his back, but he held on. He pushed his hands up the thing's face, under its blindfold, and dug in with his thumbs.

It howled. How unfortunate, Vance thought to himself behind his wide smile, that you still have eyes.

<|endoftext|>

To Ikora Rey

Ikora,

When first approached to enlist in your network of Hidden, I was reticent. I had placed my faith in others previously, and it led me to the most arduous period of my life. When I emerged, hardly anyone trusted me; rarely did others see value in me. Except you. You have always remained an ally, without my asking. 

I am now asking. The Darkness's arrival ushers in a new age and, with it, the revelation of Stasis. We must seize this opportunity before it is too late. This Collapse now escalates—our enemies' agendas advance, and we are losing. 

The Vanguard has played its part in bringing us to this stage, but Zavala is stalwart and far too stringent in his ways. He will never permit us to wield the Darkness in service of the Light. I know this journey into Darkness is dangerous and unprecedented. You and I know few have tried, and even fewer have lived. We will become the exception. 

It is an audacious claim, surely uttered by easily corrupted fools, but it is one I intend to see through. I know what they are saying. They fear what I will become. Help me to assuage those fears. I am in control.

I have touched Darkness and have seen its plans for us. Do not trust it or its messages of peace and salvation. Stasis is not a gift; it is a tool. One that can be molded to fit our needs, and I have seen how to manipulate it for our gain. The surge of power can be overwhelming and tempting to give in to, but my will is strong and brighter than the darkest of nights. I have dug in, carved new paths, and found sinew reserves in myself long thought depleted. 

We can win, Ikora. If we wield this tool correctly. We can prevent being overcome from attacks on all fronts. We can rid the world of Savathûn and the blight of the Hive. Consider that. Nothing will dare stand against us when we command the Dark and Light. You believed in Osiris's teachings of balance once. Do not tell me you falter now. I know you are wavering. This is an opportunity to find meaning and purpose the Vanguard hasn't provided. The foundations you've helped lay will provide stability, but they must be built upon.

I need you to help preserve the ideals we have been fighting for, now more than ever before. You can allay those opposed and convince them of our efforts. Be the bridge to usher in the misled. Stand with me. Together, we will achieve balance.

<|endoftext|>

To Zavala

Zavala,

Our world has changed, and the people of the Last City look to you—to the Vanguard—for leadership. We have come face-to-face with that which we have feared and condemned for so long. New insights have been discovered and knowledge once thought unobtainable has been gained. There is an untapped potential in Stasis for us to be greater than the sum of our parts. Yet the Vanguard remains stagnant in its unwavering crusade against the Darkness.

You believe we must destroy the Darkness. We cannot. We should not. We must use it, learn its power. We have a chance to show our strength in the face of utter calamity. Make no mistake—the new Collapse has arrived. Stasis is the key to enduring it. Our enemies will come from all sides, but the balance will see us through. We simply cannot win this fight on firepower alone. If that were the case, the Warmind would not have been reduced to a boneless heap of machine parts. 

I know what you think of us. The Drifter, a nuisance. The Stranger, an unknown quantity. I am also aware of the impossible feat of fully earning your trust. Your trust is a luxury. Yet I have been ever ready to serve and support Vanguard efforts throughout your tenure. Never once have I led you astray. Believe me when I tell you that this is the only way forward. 

We are doing what is required to win this fight. Now is not the time for staunch biases. It is time to end the old guard. There is a new calling, whether you answer it or not. You do not have to embrace it, but do not stand in our way. We will move on with or without you.

What you reason to gain by holding on to antiquated ideas is nothing compared to what we will lose if we do not fight back against those who use the Darkness by employing any means necessary. 

If we do not, we will surely face complete annihilation.

<|endoftext|>

To My Queen

My Queen,
Your absence during this time is distressing. I am certain the efforts on your front are not in vain, though I must inform you that our situation is evolving rapidly. Your guidance and support are greatly missed.

We have made substantial and irrevocable progress into our understanding of the Darkness. Its wants, desires, and needs become clearer each passing day. I have much to share with you, though I am concerned you will be displeased by the means with which we have obtained the information. 

Before word reaches you that Eris Morn has been compromised, I will tell you myself: I am… fighting the Darkness using Darkness itself.

It is vital to me that you know beyond any doubt that I am of sound mind and body, and our agreement stands. While I use Darkness to combat it, my focus remains steady. I know there are threats far greater assailing us on all fronts. We must strike back in measure, and this is my part, my front. For left unchecked, Savathûn will become the greatest threat of them all.
When I encountered her last, she demeaned me, tried to use my friends against me and rob me of my strength. She has no idea how powerful I have become. I will see her end… firsthand.

I acknowledge there is great anger in me. I know the Darkness would sooner exploit my rage than grant me serenity. I will not dishonor our friendship with lies: It is hard to control my emotions. I feel the temptation to give in. I urge you not to condemn me. You know what I have seen. What I have been through. I am not one for reckless abandon. Though this may seem a last resort, I have unveiled a great potential for us all. 

While I have received resistance from the Vanguard, more are joining our ranks. Soon, we will wield the power we need to stave off the odious minions of the Darkness permanently. Soon, the Witch Queen will feel my wrath. Soon, there will be peace. 

I hope when you return, it is to a world without strife. For now, I ask that you continue to believe in me. Your support has remained a beacon in the most trying of times, and were it to extinguish, I fear what would ensnare me. 

I am sure you are frightened and appalled by these developments, but I assure you this is for the greater good. While you may disapprove of my methods, know that the ends will justify the means.

<|endoftext|>

To the Stranger

Stranger,

You raise a great deal of suspicion in your ways, and your words harbor the weight of someone who has witnessed more than they let on. As one who has seen through the Darkness and into the void, I too know how to conceal unbearable truths.

Know this: truth is eternal. Run from it as long as you can. It will catch up.

You speak of events that have not come to pass with a certainty that unsettles my mind, yet your purpose here feels obfuscated and opaque. Secrecy will not galvanize our cause. It will fester and rot away our cores until our enemies eviscerate our hollowed and putrid husks.

Occasionally, I sense you may be afraid. Of the future? The past? Of me? Share your secrets, for then there will be nothing to fear, and the Darkness will have one less weakness to exploit against us.
Drifter raises other concerns about our coalition. I sense our allegiance to be a precarious one, each of us out of our element, though we all stand to lose far more than we gain through betrayal. If our dedication to the cause does not waver, we will see the other side of this Collapse.

The bonds we have formed outside of our alliance must not break. We must continue our efforts to convince those opposed to our work that it will be the foundation for our preservation. Our hope lies in a collective unity, though we must also ensure that none shall inhibit our growth or progress, no matter where the opposition lies. I fear for what that entails. I too have trepidations regarding the path we are on. Even as I feel our power swell, there is still temptation rife with destructive potency in Stasis. What else could it unlock inside of us… 

In these unorthodox times, I look to the Darkness and our enemies. See how it empowers them, while it toys with us? Oryx would never have led the Taken without its guidance. Eramis's army has been a vile, deadly force due to its influence. We should learn from their examples. It will subjugate us all if we allow it, so we must spread our message of balance through the Dark. We must show our control—or we too will be lost in the shadow it casts. Now is the time to rise up and take command. Use its power to eliminate the puppets in its grasp. If we are successful in our instruction, through discipline, Guardians will harness the long-dormant power within, without fear of corruption. They will listen to you, Stranger, as they have before. Be their lodestar for hope.

That is our path to eradicating those who misuse the Darkness. Through our singular focus and unparalleled strength, our enemies will fall by our hand, and the unending night will give way to a dawn not seen since the Golden Age. 

Is that not what we are fighting for?

<|endoftext|>

To the Drifter

Drifter,

While your presence is often irritating and your odor repellent, you have proved yourself quite knowledgeable regarding our foes. As Darkness appeared, you did not flinch. Your assistance during its arrival was greatly appreciated.

Under normal circumstances, I would belittle you and tell you how one such as yourself is unworthy of the position you find yourself in. But nothing is normal during these times, and I accept any ally willing to see past the antiquated philosophy we have sustained ourselves on for so long. You too acknowledge the need for balance during this time of extremes. Need I remind you our actions must reflect this. Your unpredictable nature has no place here. We must remain steady in our convictions, no matter what the Vanguard or the Guardians say. Keep your ears open. Should forces gather against us, it is paramount that we outmaneuver any counter to our plans.

We are both accustomed to working alone. For this effort to be successful, we must cast aside selfish intentions and find common ground. Alone, we will collapse under the weight of this undertaking, and the Darkness knows how to exploit weakness. I know you feel it as well—the power Stasis brings. Does it frighten you? Even though I believe my grasp stronger than yours, I do not have any illusions regarding the Darkness. It will tear through your lack of conviction faster than you can abandon the cause. 

I am curious, however, as to your feelings toward the Stranger. You appear as a creature of instincts, and mine remain sharp. I am nagged by the sensation that she is not being entirely forthcoming, and much of her information is shrouded in speculative riddles. I believe her intentions are true, but I cannot separate myself from the uncertainty I feel. Where does your confidence lie? I suspect you do not trust anyone, myself included. Perhaps that is a trait worth adopting. 

We will be tested in ways we are not prepared for. I hope you see the gravity of our charge, despite your consistent mockery and cynicism. This is no time for humor, though you may not have the capacity to process your emotions without it. It is wise to keep your comments to yourself. Invest in a journal for reflection when times are lighter. 

And, lastly, I ask you to refrain from referring to me as "Moondust." Perhaps then I can overcome citing you as "Rat."

<|endoftext|>

To Osiris

Osiris,

I fear this letter may never reach you, old friend. Your disappearance is as mysterious and unexplained as the loss of the planets we suffered. I write to you because we are in the midst of a new era. You predicted this turning point long before it was on the horizon, and we are in need of your wisdom, now more than ever before. 

You will be pleased, or mortified, to know you were correct. Balance is the only true way. You have seen the scales tip firsthand; too much in either direction has never resulted in the harmony we hope to achieve. 

The Vanguard is dubious of our intent and ability, fearing corruption and displacement. They do not trust me. You were held in similar contempt for speaking your truth and empowering free thought. You know what it feels like to be chastised and labeled a traitor. We are mere steps away from a disintegration of our institutions, and they cannot see destruction staring them in the face. 

We have been manipulated from all sides. Savathûn has played the Darkness as an instrument of deceit, while the Vanguard has used the Light to blind us. There was power in between, kept from our grasp. No longer. Ikora wavers. She stares at the precipice, unwilling to fall into the abyss. We can no longer wait for her to make a choice. While it pains me greatly, this is not the time for personal feelings to factor into actions. I have allied with those branded unsavory and have taken the power the Darkness holds to oppose it. It cannot oppress that which it does not control. 

For so long, we have clung to the Light, denying the strength offered by the Dark. By using Stasis, we will end this war. We see this contest for what it truly is: a game, played by our adversaries. And we have been the pawns. 

We are pawns no more. 

This is not a battle I want to wage without you, although we may not have a choice in the matter. Wherever you may be, please come back to us.

<|endoftext|>

To Asher Mir

Asher,

My Gensym Scribe. This communication shall go undelivered, along with others that never found their destination. 

I feel guilt. Pain. Anger. I am sorry I was not there for you at your final hours. What you must have felt, knowing you were facing the certain end… I hope the majesty of Io and the sacred land of the Cradle provided some comfort where I could not.

Your affliction was ravaging you—this is known. After all your suffering, perhaps you welcomed death. In a way, I envy you. To know tranquility. To discover what awaits us on the other side of this fight, beyond the torment. That does not excuse my absence, for which I struggle to forgive myself. 

I will never forget how you cared for me after my escape from the Hellmouth. You provided me with hope after I had lost all, and compassion when I believed I deserved none. You made me feel myself again.

I have stolen strength from the Darkness, imagining it would lead to a changed world after all of this. There would be peace. A cure for you. A warm cup of jasmine tea between old friends.

It was an end that justified the means.

I make a solemn vow today to you, Asher: I will have our revenge. I am powerful beyond our enemy's anticipation. The abominable Hive will be exterminated, and Savathûn's illusions of sovereignty will be broken. The vile family line will end with the Witch Queen. I will not stop there. The Vex will have their day. I will scream your name, so it echoes for eternity as I banish them in time to rust and decay and be forgotten.

Our enemies sought to corrupt us from the inside. They believed us compromised and invaded, but our infections will be healed through my actions. They were unaware that we were siphoning knowledge. We are the infections now, and we will rot them out.

Too many of my friends have disappeared. Paranoia warns me more will follow. I must act quickly. Your legacy will not be forgotten, and your work will fuel the eventual Vex deletion. I will see a monument built in your honor. Rest assured, till our Light shines together again.

<|endoftext|>

To the Witch Queen

You believed yourself clever, unassailable, and omniscient. For too long, you were. Manipulating and pulling at our strings, howling at our failings. The Black Needle punctured our deficiencies, injecting fear and doubt into our cause.

You have grown greedy, Witch. Your ambition has forced you to overextend your reach. You have revealed your weaknesses and, through Stasis, I have become powerful enough to rid us of your curse on existence. We control the Darkness and the Light now, and it will be your undoing. Your hands are wet with the blood of my allies. I have not forgotten the suffering your meddling has caused. We saw you, the puppet master behind Oryx's plot. We heard your screams as Crota met his end. Your cowardice will conceal you no longer.

I am coming for you. 

I will be your end. As your elders before you and your progeny after you fall, and all that surrounds you crumbles, Eris Morn will stand in front of you, smiling as I wipe your name from the Pantheon of Gods. You will suffer a humiliating defeat as your power dwindles and your influence withers. 

We will laugh at your demise. You will become a fascination. Children will sing songs and tell cautionary tales of the old witch whose avarice deprived her of her desires. You will fade into fable and, eventually, nothing. A bygone dream of pains no more.

Do you understand this clearly, Savathûn? 

We are no longer forced to endure your torture. There is no veil for you to hide behind. We see you plainly. Your orchestration has led to too many foul notes. All your attempts to subjugate this power have failed.

You are a plague, and we are the cure. Your army will be eradicated, and the Hive will be a layer of dust, cushioning our footsteps. Trust me—you will hate it. 

I find myself giddy at these thoughts. Revenge suits me, it seems. I no longer know fear. I am overcome with certainty. When next we come face-to-face, I will remove the bandages that shield me, so I may see you for all you are and all you are not. And you will see me and know that the fire that burns behind my eyes will be your oblivion, suffocating and searing you to ash.

Prepare yourself. I am your ruin.

<|endoftext|>

To All Guardians

Guardians,

Discontent and skepticism permeate our allies and corrode our bonds. I am certain the rumors that circulate in the Tower have found their way to you: Eris Morn has been compromised, corrupted by the Darkness. You and I know that could not be further from reality. You have stood by me, and we have been empowered, enlightened, and vivified. We have struck a balance.

There is much that you are already aware of. You have seen how the Darkness does not seek to subjugate, as the Light does not. They are tools. They are choices. They are made to be commanded and controlled. This is clear now.

Along the path, you have been the only consistent allies worth trusting. I have my doubts about the Stranger and, similarly, the Drifter. If they fail us, or worse—attempt to deceive us—we will have to continue on without their support. I do not fear that possibility. As long as we are together, we will be unstoppable. We can recover what has been stolen from us and procure retribution for that which is irreparable.

We finally have control over the Darkness and can use it against those who seek to destroy us. All of us now have the means to persevere and win this war. Any Cabal insurrection will be thwarted before it's allowed to endanger. The Vex will be banished to some forgotten time. The Fallen will surrender, or perish. And what of Savathûn and her forces? They will bend until they break into decomposing pieces of refuse. Stasis provides an answer to where we have fallen short previously. Use this power, with me, to abolish our foes and prevent what our forbearers could not. The next Collapse is here, and we must abandon our previous misconceptions of right and wrong.

You are aware of the stakes, so I will leave you with a word of warning:

The new Collapse did not come from the Darkness alone. It comes from all around. It comes from within… and the assault has already begun. 

This campaign is far from over, so there is much to prepare for. We will be the masters of our fates once more. I cannot wage this war alone. I need you. All of you. I know what I ask: for you to face the unknown. Use forces beyond our comprehension. This is a world of uncertainty, yet it remains clear—wielding the Darkness with righteous intent will be our true salvation. Will we unite?

<|endoftext|>

I: Sparky and the Scrivener

The Ghost hovered a few meters above the small campfire and tried, again, to explain the rules. The Lightbearer chewed on a bit of tough gray root. He had softened it over the fire and its sour flavor had mellowed into something approaching black pepper. To his surprise, he found himself enjoying it.

He interrupted his Ghost.

"You've explained how it's supposed to work, and I've explained that I don't care," he said with playful finality. "I don't like any of the names you've suggested. And either we both get new names, or neither of us do."

The Ghost flew down to eye level, where its shell appeared iridescent purple in the firelight. "I have had several good names already," it replied. "I enjoyed some of them quite a bit."

The Lightbearer shook his head. "You said I had a name before as well, but you won't tell me what it was."

"Can't," it corrected him. The Lightbearer fell silent.

The Ghost emitted a static sigh. "Purely as a hypothetical exercise," it said carefully, "what would you name me?"

"You are… a light in the darkness," the Lightbearer began, and paused. He stumbled over the sudden weight of his words.

From the beginning, this little Ghost had been the only thing keeping him going. It seemed every Guardian he met had little interest in him except to hold him accountable for the unknown sins of his past, but this almost unbearably earnest Ghost had mended him again and again.

It nourished him with its encouragement and its inexplicable single-minded faith in him. It showed him compassion. Sometimes, when he writhed awake with a hot knot of nameless anxiety in his belly, the Ghost would rest on his chest and hum to him until he fell back to sleep.

The Lightbearer took a breath to regain his composure. "And thus, I name thee Sparky."

The Ghost emitted a pained groan, contracted in the air, and fell to the ground, where it lay facedown in the leaf litter.

The Lightbearer smiled. "I'm sensing some reluctance, Sparky."

The Ghost gave the barest pulse and rolled itself over in the leaves—a tiny, lazy movement. It dimmed its light to a bare flicker. "It's terrible," it said flatly.

"Picky," the Lightbearer sniffed. "Very well. I can do better." The Ghost warily resumed hovering.

"How do you feel about Gleam?" he asked. "Flash? Or maybe Glint?"

"Glint?" A rainbow of colors played across the Ghost's eye. This usually meant he was calculating complex enemy behavior, determining combat outcomes, or mapping hundreds of bullets and their millions of possible trajectories. "Oh, I like Glint!"

The Lightbearer drew to his feet by the fire and bowed deeply. "Then it is an honor to meet you, Master Glint." He reached out a finger and wiggled one of Glint's points in greeting. The absurdity of the gesture delighted the little Ghost.

"And now that you have a name," said the Lightbearer, "perhaps I will be more open to ideas as we search for mine." Glint dipped in the air, acknowledging his partner's progress. The pair smothered their fire earlier than usual that night.

The next morning, a passer-by saw Glint's Lightbearer without his helmet. The Titan beat him mercilessly with her flaming hammer, snapping his collarbone and crushing his pelvis. He died hours later of internal hemorrhage. Glint brought him back and the pair traveled in silence for a long while.

<|endoftext|>

II: Identity

The Ether pipes rattled their arrhythmic beat as they greeted a new arrival in the Spider's lair.

He entered with hesitance. Gold eyes flitted around the room like a nervous animal. His clothes were those of a traitor. The white shawl of a funerary covering draped across shoulders that hunched downward as if a heavy burden rested on them. He was thin from hunger, broken by the cruelty of a face he did not recognize, but others reviled. Out of "compassion" he was given a space to rest: a modicum of privacy amid the rattling pipes.

The Spider, with one hand at his mouth, perched so far forward on his throne that it dipped down toward the floor. "Nothing? " he asked one of his lieutenants, who offered a wordless shake of his head in response.

"And you're sure? This isn't just some…" Spider waved one hand in the air, as if gesturing to his point. "Some clever ruse?" The silence that Spider was met with may as well have been a resounding affirmative.

"Fascinating." Spider grunted as he slid forward off of his throne. He landed on the floor with surprising grace, but when he walked, it was with an ambling gait—a feigned weakness. He dismissed his lieutenant with a flippant gesture and traipsed toward the nearby storage room. The pipes were quieter in there, but only just.

Seated on the floor, wrapped in the tattered white cloth of his burial shroud, the man once known as Prince Uldren Sov looked up to the wide shadow Spider cast in the doorway. He rose to his feet, then bowed. "Baron," he said mistakenly, unaware that Spider neither held no such a title, nor led a great house. Spider's response was a smug laugh, though he tried to temper it behind smiling words.

"You look like the underside of a Dreg's boot," Spider opined as he glided into the room with a silence that belied his stooped posture and uneven gait. His guest—a Lightbearer, no less—turned to his Ghost in a moment of uncertainty.

"We've had better days," was the Ghost's response. Spider restrained himself from criticizing the Ghost for intruding on the conversation and pointedly ignored him.

"My boys said they found you adrift in space, that your ship ran into some… debris," Spider said. "Awful generous of them to… retrieve you." The Spider circled, slowly, blue eyes glowing in the gloom of the dimly lit space. Up close, he carefully assessed the Lightbearer's posture, his expressions, and even something as intimate and subtle as his scent. "How long were you trapped up there, in the vacuum? Dying and being reborn… over and over again?"

The Lightbearer slouched, and his gold eyes averted to the floor at the memory. "Long enough to know what eternity feels like. Long enough to know I'd never escape without…" he looked up to Spider, to the glow of those Ether-infused eyes. "Without help."

"That's me," Spider said eagerly, "very helpful. Very helpful indeed." Now sure that the Lightbearer didn't recognize him, Spider ambled up close and took an assessing look at his new guest. "I don't think I caught your name," he added—one final test.

"I…" The Lightbearer didn't know how to answer. His Ghost was silent too. "I don't have one." It took all of Spider's energy not to burst out in gleeful laughter.

"Well, that won't do," Spider insisted as he laid a hand on the Lightbearer's shoulder. "That won't do at all. I won't have someone in my care…" and Spider was careful to emphasize that word, "without a proper name."

With a sly tone, Spider moved in closer and suggested, "How about we try one out? Just for a little while. You and me." His voice lowered, gravely and hushed. "What do you think about… Crow?"

The Lightbearer's eyes showed no recognition. The Spider's shone with predatory intent.

<|endoftext|>

III: Just a Kindness

The Warlock could handle the war beasts. The Cabal Legionaries were slow enough that she could thin their numbers in the open. Even the massive Centurion wouldn't be an issue once it was alone. But there were three Psions up on the ridge with their rifles trained on her position, and if she moved from behind her boulder, she was finished.

Druis knelt in the coarse red sand and cursed under her breath. She hadn't expected this much opposition. She didn't have the energy to teleport. Getting out of this was going to be painful.

She took a deep breath, formed a roiling Void grenade in her hand, and—

An explosion erupted from somewhere on the ridge. Gunshots – not the ozone pop of Cabal Slug Rifles, but the sweet crack of old-fashioned black powder.

The Centurion barked orders at the Legionaries, but panic quickly won out over commands. Druis heard their guttural cries as something picked them off. Another explosion and the baying war beasts fell quiet.

The gunfire drew closer, the Centurion bellowed… and then nothing.

Druis cautiously poked her head out from behind her boulder. The Cabal squad lay in heaps around the gully. Remnants of Psions littered the ridge. The air was heavy with thick smoke and the smell of black oil.

In the midst of the carnage, a lone Hunter holstered his weapon and stepped over a corpse. He walked with tight efficiency; no movement wasted. He was graceful, even for a Hunter. Druis stepped into the open and raised a hand in greeting.

"'Hoy, Guardian!" she called. "I appreciate your handiwork! The name's Druis, and you just saved me a lot of trouble."

The Hunter's expression was hidden by his heavy helmet. He gave a perfunctory wave and knelt to examine the Centurion's weapon.

Now that she was standing, Druis realized she was a full head taller than the Hunter. Suppose everyone seems tall when you're cowering behind a rock, she thought.

She pulled off her helmet and let the fresh air cool her slate-blue skin. Her dark hair limply unfurled from where it was piled atop her head. She fixed the Hunter with her golden eyes and smiled.

"I signed up for a simple salvage run," she said. "Transmat some supplies, run 'em to the City. I've had a headache all morning and didn't want anything loud."

The Hunter nodded without looking up and pulled a sparking catalyst from a Slug Rifle.

Druis chuckled. "It's okay," she said, nudging the body of a fallen Legionary with her boot. "You don't have to talk when you can shoot like that."

The Hunter paused, then stood and faced her.

"I am… they call me Crow," he said, "and I am glad I could be of some help."

The Hunter's voice was soft and refined, and while it had a frosty edge, it was not unfriendly.

"Not as glad as I am," Druis said. "The last thing I needed today was to take a rez with this headache. I told the Cabal that, but they wouldn't listen. Rude of 'em."

Crow laughed politely. "That I can understand. After being brought back, I feel out of sorts for hours."

He turned to look for more Cabal weapons and something caught the Warlock's eye. She whooped. The Hunter looked up, ready.

"I'll be damned!" cried Druis, pointing to his arm. "You're Reefborn, aren't you? Earthborn here, but you and me, we still go way back!"

Crow looked down. A strip of leather had been torn from his gauntlet, and beneath it, his own grey-blue Awoken skin could clearly be seen.

When he looked up, Druis had nearly closed the distance between them in a few long strides. His hand hovered over his weapon before the Warlock clapped him on the back.

"Figured you for one. It was your voice and the way you move." The tall woman playfully juked from side to side.

Crow was quiet.

Druis wished she could see the helmeted Hunter's expression. To her relief, there was a beep from the tracker on her belt.

"Finally, some good news," she said. "We're right on top of the supply coordinates." She scanned the area and located the tiny supply ship half-hidden by a rockslide. "Since you kept this cargo out of the hands of the Cabal, I'd say you're entitled to a cut."

"That won't be necessary," Crow said. He shifted his weight and hid his exposed arm behind his back. It was the first awkward movement Druis had seen him make.

"I didn't say it was necessary," she replied. "Just a kindness between two bright-eyed Awoken. Won't be a minute."

She ducked into the sand-filled hold of the tiny ship and found the shipping crates. Dim red lights blinked on their panels—the seals had broken long ago. She pried the lid off of the closest one. Inside the grime-covered bottles, the liquid still shone with a gentle orange glow. She uncorked one, wiped the neck clean against her vestments, and took a sip. It was bright with honey and salt and burned her throat with a clean, gingery sweetness.

"We're in luck!" Druis called as she hopped outside with the bottle. But the Hunter was gone.

Druis placed the bottle on a flat stone and took a seat next to it. Though she did not expect her companion to return, she waited, busying herself by picking dried blood from the velvety hem of her garment. Finally, she sighed, slapped her palms on her thighs, and reached for the drink.

"To Crow," she shrugged.

<|endoftext|>

IV: Saturno

He wasn't afraid of the Scorn at first.

Like anyone else who could spare the bullets, Crow had picked off a few dozen at distance when he found them in the open. Glint had told him they were related to Eliksni somehow, which made sense—they moved like Eliksni—but they just wouldn't stay dead.

When their raiding party hit one of the Baron's storehouses, he immediately sent Crow after them. He said the Scorn were "bad for business," but Crow could tell by his benefactor's wet wheezing he wanted revenge.

Crow was stealthy. Careful. But the Scorn could smell, or sense, or something. He was forced to move deeper into their territory, picking his way through welded-together ship husks as the creatures searched for him.

They had herded him into a kill box: a derelict ship with one way out. Then they started coming inside—and Crow found he much preferred fighting them from hundreds of yards away.

The Scorn were rotting flesh pressed tight beneath metal, their bodies webbed with scars and fields of boils, malformed flaps of muscle bolted crudely into place, clumps of brown cloth balled into weeping sockets.

Crow reloaded his revolver and dropped three of the smaller ones. Their helmets were thinner, or their bone structure softer—either way, one shot was all it took. The air was filled with the sour smell of wounds festering beneath brass.

Chains dragged against metal to his left and Crow spun. A hulking form was pulling its way through a gap in the ship's hull.

Crow fired. Some of the blue pustules that ringed the creature's shoulder burst open. A thin gas rose from the wound and released an acrid smell of cold solvent. He unloaded into the thing's body, corking the tunnel with its corpse.

Two Stalkers pressed through another gap and moved to flank him. He backpedaled and reloaded, fully aware he was being pushed farther into the corridors of the ship. He turned in time to catch sight of a flaming thurible and ducked, but it collided with the side of his head. His ears rang and his revolver clattered to the floor.

The Stalkers hooted in excitement as something tackled him. It was one of the big Raiders, its four ropy arms bound with filthy belts. He struggled and felt the leather straps along its forearms twist and crunch. They were caked with dried lymph.

The Raider was on top of him, mouth howling below its featureless metal faceplate, pinning him to the ground with its larger arms while the smaller two tried to bring its rifle up for a shot.

A jagged claw tore through Crow's cheek as he writhed and kicked in the Raider's grasp. He wrestled the rifle away from his chin and forced it in the direction of the two Stalkers. He groped blindly until his fingers found the trigger; the burst of fire hit the Stalkers and they fell in a screeching heap.

The Raider roared and twisted the rifle from Crow's grip and flung it away. Freed of the weapon, its frenzied subarms tore at Crow's stomach. He felt claws catch and tear his own leathers, and then they were through, and his waist was slick with blood.

Gibbering madly, it pulled him closer to its misshapen teeth. Thin mucus poured from somewhere under the metal faceplate. Down through the thing's lipless chittering mouth. Down into Crow's face.

And then he realized the creature was speaking.

There was a long moment of horror followed by one of pure revulsion. It was one thing to be torn apart by a mindless creature of madness, but this… this would not be allowed.

Crow felt the Light surrounding him more solidly than the arms of the Raider. He kicked off the creature as if underwater and felt his torn stomach lurch.

The Raider's arms closed on nothing. It looked up in rage as Crow's shifting form tumbled away.

With one hand down on the rusty deck of the craft, Crow steadied himself. The Light rose from his body like steam. Knife, he thought, and some of the dissipating energy became a blade in his hand.

He stood. The Raider charged forward, clawed hands clattering against the ground as it skittered toward him. Crow feinted left and pulled his arm across his body, then pivoted and dropped to a knee as he let the knife go.

The blade was in the creature's chest and the blade was Light and the creature became flame.

The smoke was pure, the ash clean.

The Light was Crow's weapon, and as he walked out of the ship, it was the Light that roared again and again and again from his hand.

It was the Light that drew Glint to Crow as he walked like a pillar of flame in the night.

And it was the Light that kept Crow from madness, even as the voice of the thing echoed through his mind:

"fatherfatherfatherfatherfather"

<|endoftext|>

V: Theraphosa

Glint checked his coordinates again and entered Spider's subterranean shipping depot.

He bobbed uncertainly through tight towers of stacked crates, beneath hanging coils of gurgling tubing, over piles of crushed Phaseglass, and through a hissing vent of rich lavender smoke that obscured what looked like a quantum opal. (But as private ownership of such an unstable isotope was utterly forbidden, Glint decided it must be a replica.)

He found Spider working a bank of consoles in the nexus of the depot. An intricate series of gravity currents filled the air with gently gliding cargo. Rusty iris gates snapped open and shut as Spider directed his goods to unseen corners of his dominion.

"Tell me about Crow," Spider said without looking up. Glint flew closer and caught sight of himself on a small monitor. He saw a mosaic of security feeds—corridors in the Tangled Shore, a strange workshop, Crow's quarters—before Spider collapsed the images and turned to address him directly. "How has our friend been performing in the field?"

"Quite well," Glint answered. "He's feeling more confident, while—"

"Good," said Spider dismissively. He plucked a cracked chunk of Seraphite from the current of air as it passed, ran his claws over it, then placed it back in the beam. "Has anyone told him?"

Glint didn't have to ask for clarification. "Not outright. He knows he wasn't a good person—he gathered that much from the Guardians who killed him—but he hasn't heard his old name."

Spider gave a phlegmy grunt of contentment. "And there haven't been any indiscretions?"

Glint's eye flickered and he made an almost imperceptible processing noise. Spider leaned forward. "Do you have something to tell me?"

"It's actually a funny story," Glint said. "He ran across a Warlock who recognized him as an Awoken, and she—"

"He was seen?" Spider shouted, striking the side of a passing crate. A chorus of mewling squeaks rose from within. Glint watched as it floated out of sight.

"Not seen," Glint said. "She noticed his skin under his gauntlet. He told me he didn't want to risk further exposure, so he left."

"Then he's lying, Glint. Even to you." The light in Spider's eyes seemed to dull. One of his smaller arms scratched irritably at his side.

"It's only a matter of time," Glint said softly. "People talk behind his back. There are rumors someone named Chalco has been following him. He's heard the Scorn call him 'father.' He'll eventually figure it out."

"I gave him rules for a reason."

"Following rules is counter to his nature," Glint said blithely, then noticed Spider's scowl. "Frustrating, I know. He could ask anything of the next Guardian he sees, and I couldn't stop him."

Spider growled. "You will stop him."

"The thing is," said Glint, "someday he'll realize who he was doesn't matter. What's important is who he is."

"Who he is," Spider hissed, "is my investment. I'm counting on you to remind him of that fact." A damaged crate floated past, loose Glimmer swirling in the gravity beam behind it.

The little Ghost was quiet. He floated unsteadily for a moment, then rose to Spider's eye level.

"Baron Spider," Glint said respectfully, "in his short new life, Crow has faced more than his share of cruelty. He learned what it is to truly suffer."

Glint mistook Spider's contempt for contemplation and continued.

"He isn't afraid of being hurt anymore. If you want him to stay," he said helpfully, "you'll need to offer him more than threats."

Spider looked at the impertinent little orb and rage welled up inside him. But he was old, and he was smart. He let the anger flow over him, around him, floated in its black waters until only his eyes were left peering over the surface.

"Thank you, Glint," he said, his voice calm. "I will call for you again if I need you."

Glint beeped with pride, dipped in the air respectfully, and zipped away through the stacks of contraband.

<|endoftext|>

VI: Revenant's Switch

The Ether pipes were howling.

Spider sat hunched to one side of his throne, head in hand, when Crow returned from the field.

"Baron," Crow addressed his ostensible benefactor. The Spider looked up and wordlessly beckoned the Lightbearer over. Upon reaching the throne, Crow took a knee.

"What was it we talked about before you left?" Spider's rhetorical question sat like a weight of stones on Crow's shoulders. Crow didn't look up, and when he started to answer, Spider cut him off.

"Guardians can't be trusted," was Spider's reminder. "They can be useful, they can be powerful, but never trusted."

"Baron, I only thought to—"

"No!" Spider bellowed. "You didn't! If you thought about anything, you wouldn't have exposed…" Spider caught himself, words turning into a snarled grumble as he laid back in his throne. "You screwed up."

Crow, head bowed and eyes fixed on the floor, said nothing. He knew the Spider's anger, knew his displeasure, and knew his wrath. He held no desire to face it again.

"But maybe there's some…" the Spider hesitated and chose his words carefully, "…wisdom, in your defiance. The Guardians are too good a resource to cast aside, especially on matters beyond our mutual—ah—expertise."

It was only then that Crow looked up, questioningly. For a moment, he felt humbled pride. Perhaps, he believed, that act of defiance had broken through to Spider, revealed Crow as more than a convenient Lightbearer.

The Spider held out one hand. "I have an idea to… protect you." His offer sounded sincere, even if Spider meant his investment and not Crow as a person. "Send Glint over."

Crow grew tense, looked away, and then thought better of testing another act of defiance so soon. With a nod, he showed his compliance as Glint manifested at his side. The ghost fixed on Crow with a nervous look, then flew up to Spider.

"What… do you require?" Glint asked.

Instead of answering, Spider snatched Glint out of the air with one hand. Glint shrieked and Crow stood swiftly, but just as swiftly saw the Arc-pikes of Spider's guards thrust at him. Spider made a clicking noise in the back of his throat and reached for a set of tools nearby. Tools used to pry open the shells of dead ghosts. They would work on living ones just as well.

"What are you doing?!" Glint demanded, fear in his voice. Crow stood frozen, having faced Spider's punishment before. But this… this was his Ghost. A part of Crow also feared that perhaps he was misreading the situation. He was so certain that Spider would never do anything to permanently hurt him. But when the Spider shocked Glint into paralysis with a small, needled tool, Crow was disabused of that certainty.

"Stop!" Crow cried as Spider wedged a flat tool between Glint's shell plates. "No!"

With a snap, Spider popped one of the casings off. Then he looked up to Crow and switched tools.

"Don't worry," the Spider said in soothing reassurance that flowed like ice through Crow's veins. "I'm just going to make some… modifications," he said, igniting a cutting torch.

"To better protect you… from the world."

<|endoftext|>

VII: Broken Wing

Glint's shell showed the scars of Spider's implements.

"I'm so sorry." Crow's voice was barely a whisper. For all his strength as a Lightbearer, he looked small seated on the floor in his den, illuminated by the pale glow of a solitary lamp. Crow cradled Glint in his cupped hands. The ghost's monocular eye stared up at him and flickered weakly. "I'm so, so sorry."

"It's all right." Glint couldn't blame Crow. "I—I think I'll be fine. Spider is…" he had to cautiously choose his next words, "…very skilled with modifying Ghost architecture."

"He put a bomb inside you!" Crow hissed, his voice cracking.

"But I'm still here. Still with you," Glint reassured. "And you still have the Light. That's what matters."

Crow looked up to the ceiling, unable to bear the sight of the damage done to his Ghost. He was silent, the room was silent, save for the damnable rattling of those pipes. "I put you in this position," Crow said quietly. "I let this happen."

"You had no choice. We can't change the past," Glint said as he floated up out of Crow's hands a little crookedly; like a bird with an injured wing. "We can only look to the future."

Crow forced himself to gaze down into Glint's single, flickering eye. "My future is with you. You're all I have. The only person who…" he lowered his voice, afraid Spider might overhear them. "The only person who cares about me."

"You won't ever know who cares about you until you meet them," Glint contested, then floated closer to Crow's face. "You aren't a prisoner," he added. "You… you could leave. Live a normal life. Without the Light."

Crow's jaw tensed, teeth clenched together. "No," he said through them. "I won't abandon you. You would never do that to me."

The Ghost looked away in thought for a moment and then bobbed up and down. "You're right," he said as he turned again to face his Lightbearer. Glint floated in and softly tapped his shell to Crow's nose. "I'll never leave you."

Crow reached out and gently took Glint into the palm of his hand. "We're all we have," Crow whispered, pulling his knees in close, and Glint even closer.  "Spider will never let us go…"

"…but at least we have each other."

<|endoftext|>

I: Eggcloth

He comes to Europa almost the size of an Archon priest, but hollow. He needs Ether. If touched, he fears he will crumble into nothing. His arms will dock themselves, his skin will shed. He has nothing except his armor and the thousand-year-old loom clutched in his four arms.

They mockingly name him "Namrask," which means "empty weaver." Like naming a Human "Norman," which, he understands, means "not really Human."

Eramis separates all the newcomers so they will not retain their old pre-Dusk loyalties. Namrask is shoved into a little warren carved beneath the ice; the moon's surface is so radioactive that not even Eliksni can live there for long.

The little Winterdrekhs are kind to him. Namrask realizes that they think he is too weak to earn the huge Ether ration he needs. He has been put in this warren to die.

"I can work," he rasps. "I can make bandages, capes, armor lining, eggcloth, supsoak, prayer matting, watercloth. I am a weaver!"

"Tall friend," one of the Winterdrekhs says soberly. "No one your size is a weaver. Why not volunteer to fight for Eramis?"

Namrask shudders. He cannot fight. Not after what he saw in the Reef—that THING with its staff. Not after SIVA, Twilight Gap, London. Kridis promised that this was salvation.

"Bring me broken eggs," Namrask begs, "and I will make eggcloth. How will the hatchlings be swaddled if no one weaves the eggcloth for them?"

The Drekhs watch as he uses his teeth to separate the eggshell from the thin, fibrous membrane beneath. He tears it into long fibers and fastens them to his loom as the warp—the threads that run top to bottom. With two hands, he holds the loom in his lap. Carefully, he chisels open the warp with a third hand; moving too quickly will snap the eggthread.

His life depends on this. His fourth hand swiftly passes the shuttle through the warp, drawing the first weft across. The thread does not snap; he has woven.

"Watch me," he tells the Drekhs. "When Eramis is done conquering our enemies, we must know how to make things."

They sit and watch. Their lower arms, half-grown after docking, mimic his motions. Their names are Eoriks, Oeriks, and Yriks: brother, brother, and sister.

When it is done, he gives them the little scrap of eggcloth. They murmur in wonder and rub their cheeks against it. "Bring that to the camp Captain," he tells them. "Tell them that Namrask can weave if he is fed and given fiber."

It is the first time he has ever made anything without ruining it on the loom.

<|endoftext|>

II: Hollowhot

When Namrask has the strength, he uses nonfluid loop cutters to help the Drekhs join their icy tunnels with other habitats. He weaves hollowhot matting to insulate the tunnels, and soon, some places are warm enough to remove a little armor. A clutch of eggs is hatched, and the hatchlings are raised in the warren.

For the first time since he fled the Tangled Shore, Namrask can think of more than his own survival.

Then the warrior Phylaks, a lieutenant of Eramis, comes recruiting.

On the raw ice beneath a black sky, she plays videos of Eramis raising a slab of crystal like a wall; another where she binds a Vex Minotaur in a casket of frost.

"This is the future of all Eliksni. Who among you would wield this power?" she asks.

He keeps his head down.

"You."

Namrask looks up, carefully. Phylaks's shock pistol is pressed to his brow. She puts the weapon down between them, a sign of truce, and makes the ireliis bow of respect. "You have the size of an old fighter. Why not come forward?"

He is afraid his voice will fail. It comes out strong, but like another's voice: "I saw what happened the last time Eliksni reached for new power. And the time before that, and the time before that. I will not be part of it."

Shrugging, Phylaks takes up her pistol and walks away. "There are many others who will take your place."

Later, Yriks tries to change his mind, but Namrask refuses again. "Eramis derives authority from her ability to grant this power. She cannot give it to everyone; if she does, her authority is lost," he says. "Has she destroyed Servitors?"

"I think so," Yriks says quietly. "Drekhtalk says that she broke a Servitor during a ritual to give power. To show that the old ways are done."

"Of course." 

Will society always be based on violence? Where the basic worker is not the weaver, the farmer, or the healer, but the Drekh: one pistol, one knife, one unit of labor. Employed to steal what it can—the value of a Drekh life.

And Namrask helped make that law.

He rumbles. "She preaches salvation, but she cannot save everyone. She keeps Ether scarce. More than we can get alone, but not as much as we need. It is the way to rule."

"You have a mind for strategy," Yriks observes slyly. "Who were you before you became our empty weaver?"

"Do you know hollowhot's secret?" he asks and abruptly places some on the ground for a chattering little hatchling to play gathering-games without freezing to the ice. "Why it is so valuable as insulation?"

"What is hollowhot's secret, Namrask? Why is it so valuable?" She mocks him. 

Namrask shows her one thread of the stuff, end-on, so she can see the little bubbles of vacuum that fill the center.

"There is nothing inside it," he says. "But if you pry too hard, you break the nothing. And then it is useless."

<|endoftext|>

III: Bannercloth

Europa is colder than the void because the ice steals heat faster than raw vacuum. Locally made Ether tastes of ice and radiation, of metal and blood. Namrask realizes this is not a new Eliksni paradise; it is a very old one. And it always falls.

"Do something," Yriks begs him. "We will all die here if you do not."

"No," Namrask grunts, picking at his loom. He is afraid that if he goes near Eramis, he will accept her gift.

"Do something," Eoriks begs him. "Find us a protector. You must have known great warriors, when you were great."

"No," Namrask says again. He holds a hatchling to the heat lamp so it can bask in the warmth. He fears that anyone he calls to Europa will join with Eramis.

"Do something," Oeriks begs him. "Find a way off Iiropa. If what you say is true, then Eramis will damn us all. What are you afraid of?"

"Fine," he snaps. "Then I will find us a traitor."

For the first time, Namrask makes the long walk to Riis-Reborn. It is built in the ruins of an old Human city and the angular, crowded architecture makes him growl in fear and bloodlust. He remembers when the Eliksni broke the walls of the Not-Quite-Last City and took what was within.

Sniksis and Piksis guard Eramis's chamber. The twins make ireliis to him. "She will honor you if you honor her, O Great Akh—"

"Don't say it," he growls. Not that stolen name. "I'm not here for Eramis. Where is Variks?"

When Variks, the old judge, sees Namrask, he laughs. "I thought you would be in that hole forever."

"You put me there, didn't you?" 

"Not I, sir." Variks claps two hands crosswise, one pair, then the other. "It was the day-Captain, who had no idea who you really are. Does it suit you to be forgotten, old Smokesword?"

Namrask grinds his teeth. Laboriously, he lowers himself on all four arms. "I come to beg a favor."

"No." Variks comes closer to whisper. "My judgment stands, woe-of-the-masses. You gave no mercy and you will get none."

"You make a habit of serving queens who will abandon you," Namrask whispers back. "Eramis is doomed, Variks. She is Whirlwind-touched. As I was, once."

"She knows what she risks. Why else would she have sent her mate and children to another star?"

"Athrys is gone?" Woeful news; she was Eramis's guiding glint. "You always have a way out. I want a part of it—"

"Now you run from battle?" The judge's voice is light, unmocking; a sincere question. "When Eramis could make you mighty again?"

"I survive now as a Drekh survives. I have hatchlings; I would see them spared."

"There were hatchlings on the ships you abandoned at Riis. Human infants in London—"

"I am no longer the killer I was then!"

"Yes, you are."

"But I do not want to be! When I was on the Reef, I—" Namrask struggles. "I saw the beast Fikrul. Before that, I saw the Devil Splicers. But this debasement of our form, this revenge—it must stop, Variks. Please. Help me."

"No favors," the judge pronounces. "Not for you. However…"

Variks's prosthetic hand scratches letters in the snow. It takes Namrask several blinks of his second eyes to understand that it is Human script: MITHRAX.

"I will make your name known to him." Variks wipes away the letters. "But this is not a favor." His metal hand touches the tattered blue banners around his waist. "In exchange, I want these redone in fresh bannercloth. I will send you the thread. You will weave for me, 'Namrask.'"

Namrask tries his best. But the bannerthread is too fine, the weave too dense, and he cannot complete his task before word comes that Variks has summoned the Guardians—the Machine-spawn—to Europa.

<|endoftext|>

IV: Scattercape

Namrask thunders into the warren on all sixes, crying out, "We must go! Death walks the ice!"

Oeriks, Eoriks, and Yriks spread the word. More come than Namrask dared to hope. He warns them, "We must hide close to the Machine-spawn and steal supplies, or radiation and Ether-lack will bring us down."

They leave. But not an hour later, a rifle round punctures Namrask's armor. He barely staggers, but the jet of air and Ether exploding into vacuum thrust him backwards. "A Guardian," he warns. "It will call its kin." Guardians love to gather like carrion eaters over easily slain and looted foes.

Another round hits Namrask's helmet. "Those with scattercloth, give me your capes!" In exchange for the first cape, Namrask shoves his loom into a Vandal's arms. "But this is priceless," she protests. "You cannot give it!"

"I will return for it," he promises. Feverishly, Namrask stitches the capes into a blanket as blood trickles down the inside of his armor.

He fires his shrapnel launcher into the ice to kick up steam: "Like this!" he shouts. "Make a cloud and run!" They shoot into the ice and flee. As the ice storm settles in Europa's low gravity, Namrask crawls towards the Guardian under a blanket of invisibility. Occasionally, he emerges long enough to be seen, so that the Guardian will hunt him instead of the others.

The Guardian comes for him. 

Namrask huddles against the ice, slowly freezing. The Humans are such gangly mockeries of the Eliksni form: two arms, two eyes in a smooth, lifeless doll-face, stubby little teeth. He remembers the Guardians he has killed—eight times. He has never revered Ghosts.

He remembers the smell of burning flesh. Ordinary Humans, young and old. Their gardens and structures; their star and world. Forever remembering giving that long-ago order: Burn it. Burn it. Burn it.

The Guardian nears.

Namrask melts a puddle with his armor's radiators. The Guardian uses a sword tip to test the ice at the edge of Namrask's cover. Namrask makes one small sound: I do not want to die yet.

A shock pistol burst scatters off the Guardian's armor. They whirl, sword down, rifle up; sights on Yriks. Foolish, brave Yriks, scurrying on all sixes, like a Drekh. She has saved him. 

The Guardian mocks her, saying, "Ooh, bonyenne, tu m'as tiré! Tu voulais mon attention? Ben tu vas l'avwère!" 

Their vehicle appears; the Guardian mounts it and pursues Yriks. Namrask never sees her again.

<|endoftext|>

V: Watercloth

A few members of his group return and find him half-frozen to the ice, his limbs flexing in delirium as he calls for Yriks. As they free him, a ship lifts in the distance, shimmering into stealth, and is gone. They are stranded.

"Why did you come back?" Namrask groans. "Imbeciles. You should have stayed with the others…escaped…"

"I had to give your loom back," the Vandal says. She drops it on his wounded chest. He bellows.

As days pass, the radio shrieks with distant transmissions. Encrypted tactical data between Servitors. Eramis's sermons. The song of the red world overhead. And occasionally, the bray of Human tongues, as a Guardian brags of a new conquest, or curses some obscene glory-trial amusement.

Phylaks is dead; Praksis too. 

The Priestess Kridis is dead—Sniksis and Piksis with her—and the Prime Servitor is destroyed.

Eramis is dead, consumed by her own power. One of the old Riis-born. Never will there be another.

Namrask knew it would end this way. He has seen this every time. His fallen people have learned defeat so well that now they defeat themselves. He rages and claws at the ice.

For his band of stranded survivors, he fashions shelters of watercloth: synthetic skin with thick bladders pumped full of ice to block some of the radiation. When his wound pains him, he numbs it on the ice. Turrha sees him but says nothing. He is grateful. 

"We must find a transmitter," he says. "We must call for Misraaks to return."

But survivors are still on Europa. They seek out Namrask, bringing their hatchlings but not much Ether. 

And if they can find Namrask, so can those who hunt them.

<|endoftext|>

VI: Superconductor

"My father will come for you," the voice on the radio promises. "His ship is swift, his navigation sure. He studies the motions of the Light, and that Light travels even to you."

There is not enough Ether. They all agree that the hatchlings should get their full supply. Everyone else receives a thin trickle.

But still, they die.

Namrask clings to the voice on the radio; he makes the others listen. "She is as young as some of you," he says one day. "Not much more than a hatchling."

"My father will return for you," the voice says. 

It is idiotic to reply, but he does. "Who is your father? How can he study the Light, when the Light is denied to us?"

She does not answer for a long time, but perhaps this is not her fault. The receiver is damaged, so he stitches a patch for it from superconducting threads.

When she answers, she sounds annoyed. "I am Eido, daughter of Misraaks, Kell of the House of Light. He is close to the Light because he is close to the Lightbearers. My father walks beside the Guardians of the Traveler."

Namrask kneels, frozen in horror. He tears the patch from the radio and stalks away. "I cannot go with them!" he snarls.

Oeriks calls after him, but Namrask is too full of rage and fear. The Guardians surely will recognize him if he stands beneath the Traveler.

<|endoftext|>

VII: Time Is a Fabric

"This is Misraaks." A name without title.

"To those who renounce the violence of House Salvation and seek refuge in the House of Light, I will be landing a Skiff near Asterion Abyss. Bring only what you need. We must prioritize survivors over their possessions. Trigger message repeat."

"Astiirabis," Turrha says. "I know that place. We can hide in the nearby caves."

"Fine," Namrask says. He seizes his loom. Everyone stares and he realizes: survivors over possessions.

"I am nothing without it," he protests.

Oeriks and Eoriks pull it from him. "Yriks did not die to save a loom."

They have been in the cave for two days when Namrask sees that their heat is sublimating the ice. Curious, sluggish with Ether-lack, he crawls over to the nearest wall and stares.

Namrask looks into another cave. And another, and another. The infinite caves reveal an infinite number of Namrask, Oeriks, Eoriks, Turrhas, hatchlings, and survivors—only—here, they are frozen dead to the ice—here, they are cooked by Cabal—here, they spill in panic from the cave as Guardians gun them down.

"Get out," rasps Namrask.

"What?"

"Up!" he bellows. "GET UP! WE HAVE TO GO!"

At the raw fear in his voice, they bundle up the hatchlings and run. As if the Light has arranged it all and the Great Machine truly does watch over them again, they hear a transmission: "This is Misraaks. I approach under stealth. I will be at Asterion Abyss in five minutes. If you seek sanctuary, come to me. If you still swear to House Salvation, then in the name of the old laws, I ask safe passage. This is a mission of mercy."

Namrask hunts for the twinkling distortion of camouflage against the black sky—there! Misraaks comes from Jupiitr, using the planet's emissions as backdrop.

"We should disperse," he tells Turrha. "It is unwise to crowd together at a landing zone—"

Their radios shriek—a horrific emission. A Vex maser beam catches the incoming Skiff, smashing it onto the ice. Propellant, air, and Ether burst into flame.

Namrask is not surprised. The Light does not reach them; the Great Machine does not watch over them. "We need to move," he says. He reaches out to Turrha, to touch her. "We should go to—"

A white mist envelops her. Tiny electrical discharges cover her armor. She looks up at him and gasps. The Vex teleport delivers a Goblin inside her, shattering her body. The machine, with its indifferent red eye, raises its weapon to fire.

Oeriks dies almost instantly, shot by slap fire. Eoriks leaps to him and tries to capture the escaping puff of Ether—what old faith would call the passage of his soul—as if this will keep Oeriks alive. But Eoriks is killed too.

Namrask puts himself between the hatchlings and the Vex. If he can only buy them one more moment, one more breath, then that is a better legacy than he ever hoped—

"TO ME!" a young voice cries. "Eliksni, to me!"

Misraaks comes after all. And he is not alone. The Light is with him.

And a Guardian.

<|endoftext|>

VIII: And Also Light

They are going to the Last City beneath the Great Machine.

"What are you afraid of?" Misraaks asks Namrask.

"Why are you NOT afraid?" Namrask demands. The young one bewilders him. "What life could we possibly have there? They will take their revenge on us. And wouldn't we deserve it?"

"Is there something I should know?" Misraaks asks dryly.

"No," Namrask snarls, rubbing his bare knees where they protrude from his shell. "Yes. I was—" He stops. "No. I cannot tell you, because then you would have to tell the Humans. And I will not make you lie."

"You do not want to be who you were before," Misraaks guesses. "Would you learn a new trade?"

"I would like to weave," Namrask says. "I am not good at it yet. But I might be."

"Weaving is a little like splicing," Misraaks says thoughtfully. "Splicers work in metal and flesh, not warp and weft. But the goal is the same: to nurture life with art, and nurture art with your life."

"I distrust Splicers," Namrask grunts and rubs his chest. What would a Splicer do to him? Fill him with machine cancer, to make him strong again? Give him the corrupted Ether, the undying madness?

Misraaks's primary eyes shine. "I am an older kind of Splicer. Those who look for the Light in all things. Maybe the right kind of Splicer can weave two peoples together. As the Awoken tried do, in the Reef."

"But the Light is NOT in all things. It has left us. Why look for the Light when you can see so clearly who it favors?"

"It was in us once," Misraaks reminds him. "It could be again."

Namrask remembers such a time, across a vast and blood-soaked distance.

"Riis…I was there, you know," Namrask whispers. "At the Whirlwind. After Chelchis fell, I sent ships to follow the Great Machine. I abandoned all those Houses that could not make war. I ordered my fleet to hunt the Machine. Many rallied after us. Each ship began its own war with the Humans. But maybe, I was first."

Misraaks stares at him. Finally, he says, "I understand. Our people fear the Saint too. But I doubt the Saint ever knew them by name."

***

Namrask settles in the area of the Last City that has been given to the Eliksni. By day, he shares a loom with others. By night, he whispers the names of those he has lost until he falls asleep.

He sleeps well until the day a Human shouts at him: "Baby eater!"

Namrask turns away. But he wants to shout back. About the closed air, closed life of a spacecraft. About the hatchlings who survived and the hard decisions about those who did not. He wished now they had been depraved enough to think of devouring Human young.

But he sees the young Eliksni, like Eido. He wants to wail at their promise, at their hope. Eido dislikes and avoids him, which is for the best.

Eventually, Namrask learns to weave for the Humans. His favorite task is making felt, but he also learns to work in silk. He likes the silkmaker, and runs it manually sometimes, pulling the thread from the spinneret with one hand and then another, maintaining the steady, even tension, which makes the best fabric.

He wishes that he could weave in Light, like the Guardian Warlocks, who make fieldweave in a secret way. Maybe Misraaks will learn how to do that.

One day, a machine comes to his market stall. He combs at his shell nervously. The machine-Humans are called "Exos." They remind him of the Vex; it is easier to look at their armored shapes than the unsettling softness of the Humans and two-souled Awoken. This Exo wears a colorful mantle.

"I recognize you," the machine says.

He quails. "Namrask sells fabrics," he croaks, pretending not to understand.

"Namrask." She laughs quietly. "I am old, empty weaver. Almost as old as you, I think. But unlike most of my kind, I remember London—and you."

He holds a bolt of fabric between them. She catches two of his hands: her machine flesh is warmer than his.

"Timelines are born from each moment—we live on one thread woven into a vast tapestry. But what has happened between us, on this thread, is fixed. You cannot run from it. You are a butcher. You and I are still at war," she rasps.

She releases his hands. He stares at her, breathing hard. Ether smokes from his mouth.

She playfully taps on all four of his hands. "I am named for an ancient goddess," she says, "with as many arms as you. In her hands are dharma, kama, artha, and moksha. Law, desire, meaning, and finally, liberation. Freedom from the war of death and rebirth. Are you freed by your rebirth as Namrask?"

He repeats, "Namrask sells fabrics."

"Maybe." There is laughter in her voice. "But I do not think moksha has granted you true rebirth."

"I have not forgotten what you did when you were Akileuks. And I never will," she says quietly.

He stole that name, like any other plunder, and used it. A Human hero's name, a great warrior and famous runner: Achilles, which means "woe to the enemy."

<|endoftext|>

I. A Path's End

Ada-1 heard the chirp of a comm channel opening before a distorted voice spoke. "I've got eyes on entries and exits. Looks clear."

She stepped through a rusted doorway into a courtyard—the wind whistled through the torn seams of decrepit structures and raindrops crackled on loose metal plating. She walked through the muddy soil and stopped where the Bergusia Forge used to stand.

"Curses," Ada spat.

Her hands fidgeted as her gaze wandered aimlessly around the nearly barren landscape. Artemis-5 perched on a broken pillar, her scope methodically rotating through doorways and windows while her Ghost floated patiently overhead; the other two members of Ada's escort lounged against a broken wall to the rear, silently watching the Black Armorer. She looked back, studying their featureless helmet plates, then quickly turned away. Her foot clanked against something hard and metallic—she stooped down and picked up a forgotten slab of Black Armory alloy, a remnant of the lost forge.

Artemis kicked into the comms again. "That Forge tech? Any clues of what happened here?"

Ada sighed as she studied it. "Scorch cannon sears, wire rifle cuts, kinetic ricochet marks."

"Almost like there's been years of combat here," Artemis quipped sarcastically.

"How astute," Ada said dryly. "There's nothing more to glean here." She took a deep breath, a useless gesture in her Exo body but a compulsion nonetheless.

"Sun's fading, "Artemis said. "Devrim's got eyes on a Fallen raiding party. Not headed our way yet, but I'd rather not take chances. You have what you need?"

"Hardly," Ada said. "But we won't find much else—this area has been thoroughly scavenged, same as the others."

"Fallen?" Artemis asked.

"With no Guardians bothering to stop them? Could have been anyone."

Artemis winced. "I can only imagine how you must feel. The Vanguard had a tough call to make… planetary evacs came first."

"And now they're on to exciting new frontiers, while I'm left with nothing but rubbish," Ada said, her voice full of false cheerfulness.

Artemis leapt down from her vantage point and placed a hand on Ada's arm.

Ada's shoulders slumped. "I am glad for the evacuations. I shouldn't have—"

A howl echoed from somewhere in the complex. Artemis readied her rifle, and one of the escort squad entered the comm channel. "Pikes changed heading. We should get her out."

"Are you ready?" Artemis asked.

Ada studied the broken slab of metal in her hand, turning it over and tracing its jagged edges. "I'm not sure," she said, tightly clutching the piece of debris. "But what choice do I have?"

<|endoftext|>

II. Lost

The hiss of Ada's welding torch echoed through the Armory hall, compounding into a sea of discordant noise until the seam was complete. She placed the tool down and grabbed the piece of alloy in her hand, testing the bond's strength. The actuators in her fingers whirred with effort, but as her focus shifted to the open tome on her desk, the metal promptly snapped. Ada let out an exasperated groan—two more pieces of detritus dropped on an already cluttered floor.

"Did you forget to measure twice?" a voice called out from behind. Ada whirled around as Hawthorne sauntered into the hall.

"Isn't that saying based on woodworking?" Ada asked flatly.

Hawthorne shrugged. "Don't have any welding jokes." She gingerly stepped over a tangle of cables. "Great work environment you've got; love the décor."

Ada turned to her tome with intense focus. "Can I help you with something?"

Hawthorne chuckled. "I was going to ask you that. Heard the cursing all the way up the stairwell."

"Can you interpret Armory schematics and machine the parts needed to assemble them?" Ada answered, without looking up.

"Unlikely," Hawthorne said.

"Can you convince Zavala to stop asking me when a forge will be operational again?"

Hawthorne puffed her cheeks and exhaled. "Even less likely."

Ada quickly flipped a page of the tome. The paper snapped, nearly tearing. "Sounds like the answer to your question is no."

"Is that why you're doing this? Vanguard orders?"

Ada jabbed a thumb at her own chest. "The Forges were—ARE—my legacy.  It's my responsibility to continue their operation. Zavala's desires are tangential."

Hawthorne stepped closer to Ada's workstation. "Help me out here. I'm not super familiar with your illustrious organization's history—was the Armory born of a dream to have the world's greatest gun oven?"

Ada sighed. "The Armory was founded to stand against the Darkness, to shield humanity when we couldn't count on others to do so. The forges were simply the tools we used."

"So much for that grand plan. The Pyramids rolled in, and last I checked, Mars is still missing. Titan. Mercury."

"Did you come down here solely to antagonize me?" Ada snipped.

"All right, all right…" Hawthorne pleaded.  "Look, I know we aren't friends or anything. I'm not sure you have any of those anyway—"

Ada glowered.

"Right, sorry," Hawthorne said quickly. "The thing is, people around here talk a big game about putting humanity first, but then it's all Guardians, all the time."

Ada nodded. "The devotion to Lightbearers can seem fanatical."

"But you're not like that, Ada."

Ada shook her head. "I appreciate the sentiment, Suraya, but I'm not sure how that relates to the forges."

Hawthorne leaned on Ada's desk. "I think your voice is important to have around here. I want you to succeed. But you might be holding on to the past too tightly."

Ada scoffed. "You presume to tell me how to carry the Armory's legacy?"

Hawthorne gestured to the forge memorabilia strewn about the hall. "Not at all. But your founders didn't wake up one day with forges on the brain. They started with a problem, then designed a solution as only they could."

Ada turned, her eyes thoughtful. "And you're suggesting I'm starting with a solution instead? Limiting my view?"

"I'm saying I would understand if it was hard to let go of all of this when it's all you've ever known."

Ada nodded. "The idea of leaving the forges behind is admittedly unnerving."

"I get it," Hawthorne said. "But the old methods aren't working. Maybe it's time to carry on your founders' legacy in your own way."

Ada was silent for a moment. "I should get back to work. Thank you for your advice." She jutted her arm out in a stiff handshake gesture.

Hawthorne chuckled and clasped her hand around Ada's. "Good luck. But maybe try to keep the noise down, okay? It bothers my bird."

<|endoftext|>

III. Searching

Ada-1 tapped her foot impatiently while standing in the Cryptarium. "So, can you do it?"

Rahool looked up lazily from his datapad and scowled. "What a ridiculous question. Of course I can.  It's a question of when I'll have the time."

Ada's head tilted down. "I didn't realize we were indulging in semantics."

Rahool's response was arid as he tapped away on the device. "There is no greater pleasure."

"Very well. When do you think you will have the time?"

"Hmm…" Rahool placed a hand on his chin. "The influx of data from Europa is significant, on top of the routine Guardian armament support. Not to mention the open-ended nature of your query…"

The Cryptarch's eyes flitted as he thought through the problem.

"A conservative guess would be two to three weeks."

Ada groaned. "That's absurd. I can't sit around for that long."

"You misunderstand," Rahool replied. "I make no statements regarding what you should do with your time."

Ada gripped the Cryptarch's desk. "Fine, can I search for it myself?"

Rahool shook his head. "Access to the classified archives is limited to sanctioned Guardians, Tower support staff, or the Vanguard themselves. You are none of those things."

Ada scoffed. "Don't be ridiculous, I've seen that Drifter perusing this data on a weekly basis for his own amusement."

"That's not— there's no way—" Rahool stammered and blushed. "I assure you, no such breach has occurred."

Ada folded her arms as Rahool continued. "And even if it had, one crime doesn't excuse another."

Ada leaned forward assertively. "I guess you will be of no help then."

Rahool shrugged. "Not for two to three weeks, at the very least."

Ada grunted and stormed off through the Cryptarium's towering doors, their colorful display of cullet glass shining on her shoulders, when she heard Rahool loudly call out after her.

"What were the names again that you were querying against?" Rahool asked.

"Henriette Meyrin, Yuki Satou, and Helga Rasmussen."

Rahool's eyebrows lifted at the final name. "You may be in luck. It seems our interests have overlapped."

<|endoftext|>

IV. A Guiding Hand

Ada worked to keep pace with her Eliksni guide weaving through the dimly lit and angular maze of the Last City's Eliksni Quarter. The blur of open windows and doors provided brief glimpses into their new guests' lives: Strips of purple fabric filled wash basins. Jars of unknown food clinked against each other as they boiled in oversized pots while parents softly clacked their mandibles and watched their infants nestled in gently used blankets. In the distance, attendants surrounded a humming Servitor.

The guide entered a basement-level dwelling. Ada followed as they pushed through a rough cotton curtain and stood in a warm and humid room laden with myriad rugs and carpet swatches. The City's ambient glow slipped in through a singular small window while candles flickered in a pastiche of glass vessels. A series of futons had been arranged in a semi-circle in the middle of the room; there, a band of Eliksni lounged on and against the furniture, all listening to the words of a single speaker seated on the floor. The air filled with guttural clicks and low growls that Ada could make no sense of. She finally understood the performance to be over when the audience dispersed and her guide led her to sit beside the scribe.

"You're the one asking questions about Europa, are you not? About Salvation?" the scribe said.

Ada frowned. "You speak our language remarkably well."

"I had an unusual upbringing," the Eliksni replied. "I am Eido. What do you seek, Black Armorer?"

Ada sat on a futon, keeping a healthy distance from the Eliksni. "I'm searching for information from the BrayTech facilities on Europa."

"And you believe we have this?"

"I know some of your people defected from House Salvation. They may have seen something."

Eido nodded. "They have seen many things."

"One of my forebearers, a great weaponsmith, worked at the Bray facilities on Europa… but I only know a fraction of what she was doing there."

"Ah," Eido said. "Always about guns."

Ada frowned. "Your people are no strangers to weaponsmithing."

Eido inhaled. "True. And now, improbably, both our arsenals stand together in the shadow of the Great Machine."

"An alliance that makes it all the more logical for you to help me," Ada said.

Eido placed her claws together. "I will not help, because I cannot. No mentions have been made of anything related to your Armory founders."

Ada's gaze dropped to the floor.

Eido cocked her head and observed the Exo. "Such despair. Maybe this is about more than guns after all?"

Ada paused briefly. "I lost something. A part of me."

Eido nodded solemnly. "Your forges, yes?" 

"My whole existence was tied to the Armory. To those forges. Without them, I feel…"

"Without purpose?" Eido finished the thought.

Ada shook her head. "This isn't— I'm not sure you could understand."

Eido chuckled—a guttural grunt combined with clicking teeth. "Our history is littered with the banners of lost Houses. Most of us have worn more than one color, knelt before Kell after Kell, hoping that they would be the last." She leaned closer to Ada. "Eliksni understand the fluidity of purpose very well."

"Fluidity implies a continuation," Ada replied. She sighed heavily. "But it seems my path is coming to an end."

Clicks resonated in Eido's jaw. "Devils was a dead House, until Eramis made it new. Mithrax was Dusk, and now, he is Light. Paths only end when we stop walking."

Ada studied the Eliksni. "This is not the conversation I was expecting."

"If this settlement is going to work, it's probably best to break from old expectations," Eido said.

Ada nodded and looked at the light softly radiating through the window. "I've taken enough of your time. Thank you," she said and confidently extended her arm with sincere gratitude.

A clawed hand landed softly on her shoulder as the Eliksni instead thrust her datapad into Ada's outstretched hand. The befuddled Exo quickly parsed the screen.

"This is something we found in the Bray archives. It is not what you were looking for, but it may help you decide where to walk next," Eido said.

"I—I'll look into it, I suppose."

"Good," Eido replied as Ada stood and slid the datapad under her arm. She hesitated.

"Are you sure it's a good idea to give me this? How… how will it look to your allies—you helping me like this?"

Eido chittered. "It will look like unity."

<|endoftext|>

V. Forward

Louis was the first to notice Ada. The bird's head darted in her direction as it shuffled on its post. Hawthorne turned, a brief look of surprise on her face before she grinned.

"If it isn't the reclusive armorer," Hawthorne said. "I was just thinking about checking on you."

Ada reached the top of the stairs and marveled at the expanse of the Last City stretching from Hawthorne's vantage point.

"Oh? Was I making too much noise again?"

Hawthorne shook her head. "The opposite; way too quiet down there."

Ada chuckled. "Things have been going more smoothly as of late."

"Glad to hear it," Hawthorne said and nodded. She removed a morsel of meat from the pouch at her waist and tossed towards Louis, who gobbled it voraciously. "So what was the answer?"

"Centuries-old research on matter programming, left behind by a megalomaniac," Ada said.

Hawthorne whistled. "Sounds like a trip."

"It has been. I feel quite changed by this experience," Ada said, a slight lilt to her voice.

"Change can be good."

Ada watched engine flares weave through the City's expanse. "There was one thing from our last conversation that stuck with me."

Hawthorne raised an eyebrow.

"Only one? That's definitely disappointing."

"You said you weren't sure if I had any friends," Ada continued.

"Ada, I didn't mean to—"

"If I'm being honest, social connection has never been my strong suit."

"I know that it can be scary to put yourself out there. Especially with everything you've been through," Hawthorne said softly.

Ada considered her words. "It can be. But I'm finding this new journey to be a little less daunting, when I'm willing to walk it with others."

"Sounds like a pretty good lesson," Hawthorne said with a smirk.

Ada let her gaze wander over the constellation of architecture gleaming in the Last City; the meandering grid of roadways and the rolling landscape beyond. She breathed in deeply, letting the air fill her chassis.

"I should probably get back down there. I have a lot of work ahead of me," Ada said, clearing her throat.

Hawthorne clasped a hand on Ada's shoulder, startling the Exo. "Don't be a stranger, Ada. You come up from your cave more often, you might find you have more friends than you think."

<|endoftext|>

Throne

Eris Morn returned to the Vestian Outpost. Because she spoke well, it was agreed that aid would be traded for intelligence and a long-term alliance. In this way, the Awoken were the first to know of the Great Navigator: his philosophies, his strategies, his weaknesses. And as the coven contemplated the possibilities laid wide before this god-king's far-flung sword, it was decreed that they would build a throne world beneath an energy well as blind as the ferryman Charon.

Nascia drew the schematics. Portia worked out the calculations. They made their first test with a small rift generator on the eastern shore. Satisfied that their methods were sound, they then went to a grand cathedral to dig the well. There, Lissyl and Sedia augured the first borehole with the help of Riven, who had taken the shape of a needle-nosed basilisk, while Kalli and Shuro Chi constructed the gate itself, deep below, in a hall they named "The Confluence."

Illyn made tincture after tincture of queensfoil until her clothes stank and her hands were stained reddish-black. Open-eyed, she walked between planes and sorted the threads of reality on a vast metaphysical loom, weaving some closer, some more distant.

Mara and Riven shaped her third throne together, and the artistry of their work was a testament to the hungry joy they felt in that partnership. They named it Eleusinia, and it was in those Ascendant halls that Mara finally carved a statue for Sjur.

When it came time to connect the Well to the unreality that lay beyond the gateway, Sedia asked, "Would it not be wiser to leave this door without a key?" Riven, now an immense antlered serpent with broad tiger paws, tightened around the perimeter of the room like a noose.

"Egg," Mara corrected absently, chewing on her thumbnail.

"The key is so heavy as to be unliftable," Kalli ventured, since they were speaking metaphorically.

Sedia flapped her hand dismissively. "Yes, yes, I know." They all knew that the gate required a continuous multi-week charge of paracausal energies, and that almost nothing in this solar system could produce such energies at the scale required by the gateway. Almost. "It's just— do we…"

"Do we wish to trust the Guardians?" Illyn filled in dryly.

Mara ran her hand along the sleek surface of the primary well's control mechanism, then turned and walked alone toward the fresh, foggy air that blew in from the coast. The Techeuns watched her go.

"There is only the plan," Illyn said. "Remember your vows, Sedia."

<|endoftext|>

Oracle

There came a morning when the Techeuns spoke in unison, though none were near each other, and they said, ++WHO ARE YOU WHO BUILDS A HIDDEN CITY HERE IN OUR THOUGHTS?++

And Mara, alone in the Queenswalk of the Dreaming City, heard their voices ring out as if each Witch stood beside her, and she said to the empty air, "I am Mara Sov. Who are you?"

The answer came at once, ++WRONG! IT IS THE EKPYROSIC. WE ARE THE NOTHING-SPACE FABRIC.++

Hearing this, Mara recognized a riddle. She turned at once and left the Queenswalk so that Riven would not be inspired. As she walked, she thought. At length she said, "Wrong. You are the Ancients. You are the idea that gives fate its shape."

That one-voice came again, as clear and strong as the birth of the universe, booming with dispassionate curiosity, ++IT THINKS ITSELF WISE! HOW DID SOMETHING LIKE IT ATTAIN SUCH REVELATION?++

Mara lengthened her stride, taking the steps three at a time so that she could duck into a little-used transport gate. She emerged in a small coastal observatory—then nothing more than a grand dormitory—and found Kelda Wadj, the Allteacher, hovering four feet off the ground. Blood poured from her ears and nostrils. Her eyes saw nothing. The other Techeuns were transfixed thusly in a geometric array around the Dreaming City—each one inert, suspended, bleeding.

Mastering her horror, Mara said, "I have lived alongside you." And because she was afraid for Kelda, she asked, "Do you intend violence?"

At once, the Techeuns collapsed to the ground like marionettes from severed strings—all but Kelda Wadj, whose augment blazed with coruscating light. She rose higher into the air and began to unravel, particle by particle. As she came undone, she said, ++NOW IT INSULTS US.++ 

Mara steeled herself against the horrific sight of her old friend's ruin. She had been a fool to think the riddling was over. She said, "Of course." Violence, after all, is a matter of perspective. "What I mean is, what would you ask me?"

Beloved, wise Kelda Wadj burst apart and then collapsed all at once into a singularity that burned and burned and burned but destroyed nothing around it. From her un-throat came the voice again, which Mara felt in the atomic marrow of her bones, and it said, ++WHAT WOULD IT ASK US?++

For fifteen days and fifteen nights, the singularity burned unshielded.

On the sixteenth day, they began construction of the Oracle Engine, which took the singularity of the Allteacher as its seed-heart.

<|endoftext|>

Misraaks

The Vandal stoops as he exits the Galliot. All of his arms are bound behind his back, so he cannot shield his eyes from the bright sun. A breeze stirs his cloak. There is a cliff behind him and lush gardens ahead. His jailer would not grant him the honor of a quick death, so she must intend to torture him. She thinks he will yield like the flesh-lovers from House Judgment. She is wrong. Whatever indignities she can muster are nothing compared to what he deserves.

With his chin held high, he imagines shucking off his armor and laying all four of his arms in his Captain's hands. His Captain is his mother, and she will not dock him with a scythe. She will twist and tear his arms from his body like she is shucking a fine, fat crab for dinner, and he will be glad of the slow, sick cracks and crunches of his bones. He will be glad of the shame. Let him go limbless for the rest of his wasted life. Let the Ether-thirst shrivel him up like a yaviirsi fig.

"What do you think?" his jailer asks in a language he cannot understand. She steps up beside him and claps a hand on his shoulder. He flinches. She is nearly as tall as he is, and for a creature with no claws, her grip is strong and sure.

Together, they contemplate the gardens.

"It's all a bit much for my taste," she admits as he sneaks a furtive look at her.

Her bow is unstrung. There is only one arrow in her quiver.

She is stupid.

He whirls, trips her, and sprints for the cliff. She swears, recovers, and lunges after him. As he pitches himself off the edge, he thinks of his mother's shame and prays that she forgets him. Better that she never had a son than a weakling so easily captured by the enemy.

It is his bad luck that she catches his foot with one hand. His helmet slams into the rocky cliffside. A piece of his rebreather cracks off and disappears into the mist far below. He flails, but he cannot drag her down with him; somehow, she hauls him in like a fish. As soon as she has him on solid ground, she binds his ankles with the string of her bow. "All right," she says, catching her breath. "All right." She chuckles, pats his shoulder fondly, and then pulls him upright like a sack of psakiks.

She takes a step back, brushing off her hands against the seat of her trousers. He glowers, the surliest psakiks sack this side of the Great Machine, hating her horrible, squared-off teeth and her blunt, stubby fingers. "Let's try this again, shall we?"

Drawing two fractal knives from sheaths on her thighs, she makes a perfect ireliis bow before him. Thunderstruck, he sits up straight. Stares.

"Not good?" she asks, and tries again.

Furious confusion takes him. This is some kind of trick. Blasphemous mockery. "Iirsoveks," he rumbles.

She shakes her head. "Nama." Sheathing one of her knives, she holds out her free hand with her fingers spread in supplication.

He draws his chin toward his throat with this fresh betrayal, narrowing his secondary eyes. It speaks!

Slowly, without breaking eye contact, she lays her other knife on the ground between them. The blade points toward her boots. He watches her every movement. How many secrets have the flesh-lovers betrayed, that this creature can make peace like a cringing drekh before his kel?

She taps two fingers against her cuirass. "Sjur," she says slowly, then she points at him.

Honor-bound even as he simmers in scandal, he replies, "Misraaks. Velask, Si-yu-riks."

"Mithrax," she repeats, then grins. "Velask, Mithrax. And welcome! Let's have a look about, shall we?"

<|endoftext|>

Azirim

And when the second solstice began in earnest, many Awoken and Ahamkara alike came to the Dreaming City to celebrate the delirious pleasure of being alive. Those who came arrived in the Gardens of Esila, and Azirim was the very last. Seeing him land, Esila said to him, "Ah! You are bold. Do you truly think you've earned the right to revel in this place?"

And Azirim answering said, "Please, wise lady. I've gone 'round the worlds and through the stars themselves. I have come only to congratulate your people. If you lend me your ear, I can prove I will not waste the mercy you might grant me."

And Esila said to him, "We've often lent our ear to your indiscretions. I know what happens to that which is lent to you. I need no assurance."

And Azirim answering said, "My indiscretions? Wise lady, I do admit, I may have whispered truths you gave me to deceive those who would deceive me. But have I ever struck out with hungry fang against your people? Have I set fire to your trust? I have seen the error of my ways. Let me prove to you oh how I have changed."

And Esila, though she could see a flickering in Azirim's reflection, could not resist a redemption story. Esila cast forth her hand and beckoned to Azirim in mercy. And Esila said to him, "Join us and be glad, but let me hear your testimony first."

And so invited, Azirim bowed his crested head and hid a secret smile and spoke with the pardon Esila had given him. He recounted his many regrets in deceiving the kind merchants in the capital city of Interamnia. He recounted his charity to the wayfaring Corsairs who could not have escaped the heliopause without his aid. He recounted his journey to retrieve the eutech stolen from Pallas by the profane scavengers the Fallen, and he named his friends and those who had shown him kindness. And from the raucous parties beyond the lush gardens of Esila came an audience of Techeuns in training and flush-cheeked young Corsairs. They knelt in the dewy grass and they listened, and as they listened, and as Azirim spoke, his appetite grew and grew. Night fell on the Dreaming City.

And Azirim said to those who knelt enraptured, "Come, let me sing to you of extinction. Let me sing to you of lives lost in beautiful places, o audience mine. Sing with me, sing!" He bade them rise, and led them singing down and away from the gardens of Esila. He spread his wings and flew out into the empty air beyond the steep cliffs that bordered the gardens. And to those who happened to glance toward the gardens from far-off pavilions, it seemed a merry parade, a joyous chorus.

And they did not hear the singing stop.

And they did not hear the bodies dashed against the shore below.

And they did not see Azirim grow, or laugh, or flee.

<|endoftext|>

Bamberga

$
$ COPY BAMBERGA"ORIN RCLJN3YJPYQ79YER"::APHEL.REL   APHEL.REL
$ TYPE APHEL.REL

%%%%%%%%%%% VIOLET CLEARANCE ONLY %%%%%%%%%%%

INDEX:

EVENT 2PAL-A :: OTDR-4-REL
EVENT 2PAL-B :: OTDR-4-REL
EVENT 4VES-A :: OTDR-4-REL
EVENT 4VES-B :: OTDR-4-REL
EVENT 4VES-C :: OTDR-4-REL
EVENT 4VES-D :: OTDR-4-REL
EVENT 4VES-E :: OTDR-4-REL
EVENT 7IRI-A :: OTDR-4-REL

SUMMARY OF SBU APHELION INCIDENTS FOLLOWS BELOW.

*** EVENT 2PAL-A :: OTDR-4-REL ***

INFORMATION RECEIVED APR 09-18T02:29:45+00:00 FROM PALADIN NOLG, CONSIDERED SOBER, DEPENDABLE, NOT OF FANTASY. NOLG REPORTED "A GLOWING CREATURE" ON EXT OF HIS SHIP "RETRIBUTION" MOMENTS BEFORE ROUTINE NLS JUMP.

"RETRIBUTION" FDR SHOWED RAD SPIKE (5 SIGMA) ON TEPC, CPDS, AND RAM. CPD SHOWED NO EFFECT. ON RECOMMENDATION OF K WADJ, NOLG WAS QUARANTINED UNDER TECHEUN SUPERVISION FOR 1 MONTH. "RETRIBUTION" DECOMMISSIONED, SET ADRIFT BEYOND REEF. 


*** EVENT 2PAL-B :: OTDR-4-REL ***

INFORMATION RECEIVED APR 10-27T17:11:56+00:00. REEF SPACE STATION AMESTRIS, THEN UNDER CONSTRUCTION, ISSUED 6 UNIQUE DISTRESS CALLS OVER A 2-MINUTE PERIOD. TRANSCRIPTS FOLLOW.

T-1: PAN-PAN, PAN-PAN, PAN-PAN. ALL STATIONS, ALL STATIONS, ALL STATIONS. THIS IS RSS AMESTRIS. WE HAVE A POSSIBLE SKYSHOCK EVENT IN PROGRESS. REQUESTING IMMEDIATE VIDCOM WITH ANY AVAILABLE TECHEUN. [STATIC FOLLOWS]

T-2: MAYDAY, MAYDAY, MAYDAY! ALL STATIONS! THIS IS RSS AMESTRIS, WE ARE UNDER ATTACK! OUR HULL HAS BEEN BREACHED! MAYDAY, MAYDAY, MAYDAY! THIS IS RSS AMESTRIS PLEASE SOMEONE [STATIC FOLLOWS]

T-3-A: I'VE GOT IT, HANG ON. I DON'T KNOW HOW TO… WHAT'S THE CHANNEL?
T-3-B: THEY'RE SCREAMING! LISTEN, THEY'RE ALL SCREAMING!
T-3-A: BE CALM! HELP ME! WHAT'S THE CHANNEL?
T-3-B: IT'S THE CORE, IT'S THE CORE, THIS IS THE STALKING CORE!
T-3-A: SHUT UP! WHAT'S THE CHANNEL!
T-3-B: OH NO, OH PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE [STATIC FOLLOWS]

T-4: ORIN, IT'S ME, IT'S NAMQI. I DON'T THINK I'M COMING HOME, BABY. I'M SO SORRY. I'M, I'M, I JUST WANT TO TELL YOU THAT I LOVE [STATIC FOLLOWS]

T-5: MAYDAY, MAYDAY! THIS IS VEN ASAR ON THE RSS AMESTRIS. WE ARE 300 SOULS ABOARD. SOMETHING IS HAPPENING, EVERYTHING IS BLUE, SOMETHING IS HERE [STATIC FOLLOWS]

T-6: [UNINTELLIGIBLE] [SCREAMING] [STATIC FOLLOWS]

A SAR FLEET FOUND THAT THE AMESTRIS WAS UNSAFE TO BOARD DUE TO RADIOACTIVE SURFACE CONTAMINATION. SAR DEPLOYED MULTIPLE CROW DRONES FOR INTERIOR SURVEY. NO EVIDENCE OF HULL BREACH WAS FOUND. NO EVIDENCE OF MALTECH DETONATION WAS FOUND. NO EVIDENCE OF HOSTILE ALIEN INTERFERENCE WAS FOUND. NO EVIDENCE OF INTERNAL SABOTAGE WAS FOUND. NO SURVIVORS WERE FOUND.

AMESTRIS ABANDONED, SET ADRIFT BEYOND REEF.


*** EVENT 4VES-A ***
$ Q
$ DELETE APHEL.REL;*

<|endoftext|>

Letters

Undelivered, lost.

Did you watch them die? Did you watch me take the knife and carve out each eye, one-two, one-two-three? Did you watch your body rot? You pretend to be aloof, but you've always been defined by your preoccupations. How deeply did you grieve when your bones were crushed to ash and dust?


Undelivered, damp.

Both crowns have been sundered, and Sky save me but I am unmoored. I have been a blade crying for a hand to wield me for so long, but what is a blade with nothing solid to cut? You will gentle me. You will tell me I can rest. You will try to pull me to the libraries. I cannot. I cannot. I cannot.


Undelivered, burnt.

Патетическая. The swelling of strong sentiment in your chest even as you mourn the world that is and was and will be. I did not go to Mars. I will not go to the Dreaming City. There is only the plan. 


Undelivered, lost.

Cousin, do you remember the streets of the Last City? Do you remember eating fresh red grapes and playing tag between the market stalls? You cannot. We grew, we died, we were reborn. But I remember. It is the one thing I know is true. You used to LAUGH. What manipulation of the fates has led us each to our own calamities? [Forceful, looping script.] I listen to Vanguard channels every day for news of your death. If and when that news comes, I will fly to you at once, no matter where I am and no matter what front I fight on. [Aggressive pressure, carved deep enough into the paper to tear it.] I swear it.


Delivered. 

I have been inside. I have nothing but beautiful and violent words for my report. I will meet you at your throne.

<|endoftext|>

Honored

Pride flutters in Petra's throat like a trapped bird. She doesn't know whether she will fly away or drop dead. As the elevator descends, she looks left at Illyn and then right at Uldren. She shuffles in her gleaming formal armor. From exile as Tower emissary to THIS is incredible. Unbelievable. She does not deserve it. "This is real," she whispers, unable to stop herself. Uldren smiles, but Illyn makes a warding gesture: Be silent!

Music begins to swell as the elevator settles. At the center of the room, the Paladins and the rest of Illyn's Techeuns are arrayed around Riven, of course, and—

Her breath catches. 

Mara. 

She can't help shooting another quick glance at Uldren: How..?

His smile widens.

Petra sets her jaw, pulls her shoulders back, stands strong and tall.

A chorus of thirty sings them into the Hall of Names. The air is sweet with lavender, and there are hundreds of candles lit all around the room, and even at this distance she can see Hallam is verklempt. This is as good a homecoming as she could ever imagine. More than she ever deserved.

When they reach the dais, she kneels. Uldren and Illyn proceed past her so that they can acknowledge the Queen and her waiting counselors. The song ends; the music quells. Uldren and Illyn speak together, and their voices ring out fierce and true. "Your Grace, we here present to you Petra Venj, your loyal servant, wherefore all you who are come this day to witness her homage and service. Do you acknowledge her?"

Petra cannot see anything but her own distorted reflection in her polished sabatons. She closes her eyes.

"I do," Mara says, and Petra's throat tightens.

Uldren and Illyn turn, synchronized. "Petra Venj! Are you willing to take the oath?"

"I am willing," Petra manages, struggling to steady her voice.

"Will you solemnly promise and swear to protect our people, our holdings, our territories, and our immaterial interests?"

"I solemnly promise so to do."

"Will you to your power cause law and justice, in mercy, to be executed in all your judgments?"

"I will."

"Will you, to the utmost of your power, uphold your sospital duties in defense of your Queen's life? Will you execute and preserve inviolably the orders of your Queen? And will you preserve unto your dying breath the secrets committed to your charge?"

"All this I promise to do."

"Then rise," Mara says, "and declare yourself."

Petra lifts her head to find Mara's eyes. "Let it be declared that the oaths which I have here before promised, I, Petra Venj, will perform and keep."

Mara smiles and steps forward with a fresh-forged knife. "Then receive this blade, brought now from the forges of Interamnia. With this blade, do justice, stop the growth of inequity, restore the things that are gone to decay, maintain the things that are restored, punish and reform the things that are amiss, and confirm the things that are in proper order: that doing these things you may embody my will and become my Wrath. May the hunt be good."

"May the hunt be good," echoes the assembly.

Petra does not see the cynical glance that passes between Leona and Pavel, who have both served the Queen faithfully for decades. She does not see the way Riven tastes the air. She sees Mara, and Mara alone.

<|endoftext|>

Riven

Mara sits cross-legged in the canopy shade of Riven's wing. She wets the pad of her thumb with the tip of her tongue, then uses the moisture to hold a bundle of fresh-picked asphodelia in place. She ties off the stems with a length of silk-spun gold thread, then begins the mindless busywork of braiding in all the expected accoutrements: a serrated fang, a shotgun shell, a cloudy amethyst crystal…

Riven turns to watch. On this day, her head is the size of a Fallen pike. She is vibrant blue with a yellow and red crest, and her pupils are crescents within her lidless eyes. After a time, she says, "Madadh is dead but you make him no bouquet." 

Mara looks up, struck by the novelty of the moment. She studies Riven, and swallows the first words that come to her tongue, which are, Madadh's bones are whispering at this very moment on Venus. Instead, she asks, "You mourn him?"

That crescent-pupil contracts as thin as a sickle's edge. "No."

Having found the true answer, Mara resumes her work. A while passes in silence until she says, "Ahamkara have no traditions."

"No."

"No sentiment."

"No."

Mara bites off a piece of thread. "Why did you allow my brother to spirit you away?"

"You know this truth, wise Queen. He is so full of succulence."

"Mm. And why do you roost here when there is rich hunting beyond my Reef?"

"Truly I say to you"—here Mara hides a small smile—"the Awoken have entrusted What-Will-Be to you their Queen, and thus they are all dry as a stone to me. Pleasantly so, for wetness is sweet feed, but dry stone is a friendly basking-place. You, you are as hot and flat as the plateaus of Mercury, and your heat stirs my blood to move."

Mara nods and says nothing more, though she thinks a while on the three-parted curse used by Ahamkara to mark their prey, the shackle between Appellated and Appalling. When she finishes her memorial bouquet, she unfolds herself and rises to stretch. Riven does the same, and as she relaxes, she spreads and shuffles and shakes her pinions until they all lie straight.

The land around them is shapeless rock that will become an aubade to those left behind; Mara will honor her enemies and friends alike in stone, she will build grand cathedrals veneered in amethyst and agate.

Riven butts her rounded snout under Mara's hand and waits.

"Let us find Kelda," Mara says.

<|endoftext|>

Reextinction

SHE HAS RUINED EVERYTHING!

Such blind arrogance—

WE ARE LOST!

h u r r y

He will recruit them all if we do not act now

W H A T C A N W E D O

Done cannot be undone! Everything is lost!

kill them where they creep and crawl let their bones whisper naught

THE CHILDREN!

t h e y a r e n o t o u r c h i l d r e n

We have no time for sentiment

It is this or we lay ourselves bare before the veil.

NO!

No!

W E M U S T B E F O R E H E T A K E S T H E M A L L

imagine his power

REACH TOGETHER NOW

No, no, no!

that our touch be lethal

Riven!

w e w i l l i t s o

THE DREAMER IS LOST CULL THE REST

that our judgment be true

W E W I L L I T S O

<|endoftext|>

Savin

Now in time Uldren Queensbrother returned to the Reef with a new creature. He had killed it twice in ambush, he said, to be certain it could not die. It had once been an Awoken man, and, recognizing it, Mara turned away from her plans for the Dreaming City and watched it coolly.

"It is a Guardian," she said. "Once it was Chao Mu." He had left the Reef alone, knowing that he could never return or see his family again, to repair a failing climate controller in what had once been Earth's Gobi breadbasket. He had said he could not bear to watch the world wither.

"Bow before the Queen," Uldren said, giving him a shove.

The Awoken man looked at him, then back at Mara. "Your Majesty," he said, bowing. "My name is Savin."

"You do not remember your wives?"

He did not.

"You do not remember your child, who is now a hundred and ten?"

He did not.

"You do not remember your passion, which was the insulation of minutely sensitive detectors from all but the most specific and subtle radiations?"

He did not, except that he said he could touch magnetic fields and loved to tweak the miniscule weave of the circuits in his robe. He had a zoogoer's enthusiasm for particle physics.

"To what do you owe your loyalty?"

"Your Majesty," Savin-who-was-Chao-Mu said, "my Ghost told me that I am a Guardian of the Traveler, reborn in its Light. I was not a day old when your brother waylaid me."

And he caused to appear from his body a machine like a sphere cradled in a broken cube, which bobbed impertinently and blinked at the Queen. "You'll make an enemy of the City and every Guardian in it if you keep us against our will," the machine warned them. "But we would gladly be your allies, if you desire it. The City has no idea of your existence, except faint myths among the Awoken on Earth."

"Does it speak for you?" the Queen challenged Savin-who-was-Chao-Mu.

"I speak for myself," Savin-who-was-Chao-Mu answered. "Behold!" And he drew forth from the quantum vacuum a shrieking singularity, which he held between his hands and then telescoped down into nothing.

"Are you intrinsically good?" the Queen asked.

"I hope so," he answered. The Queen knew this was a lie or a misapprehension. She was aware of the Risen and the cruel fiefdoms they had sometimes enabled. However, perhaps the Ghosts that had made the Risen were destroyed or became enlightened.

Now the Queen asked the Techeuns to assess the differences between the Chao Mu they remembered and this Savin returned as a Guardian of the Traveler, using their most sensitive physical and psychological tests. Most of all, though, the Queen was curious about the reaction of her Ahamkara, which had begun to salivate, and to assume a form more like the Guardian expected: monstrous and befanged.

But her brother whispered urgently to her, "We must know how to kill it, Mara. There are more every day." 

Savin the Guardian showed a tremendous fondness for doing things; he had a pathologically task-oriented nature, which made him very useful to the Reef. Yet there was always the sense that his Ghost was watching, observing, reporting. And Savin was most of all greedy—not in the grasping manner of the petty, but in an enormous, all-consuming way, for he desired materials and experiences that would temper him into a better Guardian, and he was always experimenting with his strange powers in foolish ways that left him briefly dead, seeking "a new Super ability" or "some way to make my grenades faster." He grew tired of performing trivial tasks about the Reef, complaining that the dangerous repairs he made were endless and boring, and that he wanted to move on to new worlds. He leapt into space, repeatedly and without reason, as if his death were no more traumatic than a hop off a curb. Obsessed with reward and efficiency, he would rather do one profitable thing a thousand times than waste his efforts on a less beneficial novelty.

By the end of her acquaintance with Savin, Mara had decided she did not like this Traveler and what it did to people. Yet she had also decided that she felt a strange kinship and sympathy for it, this cornered, desperate god, making infinite sacrifices out of its people.

Perhaps the Earth would be better off if the Traveler vanished or was destroyed, she thought. Even in the Reef, she felt as if she were living next to a torch held up in a dark wilderness, calling out across the galaxy to hungry things with too many eyes.

<|endoftext|>

Archiloquy

Secrets. Do you come in hope, o reader, for the secrets of My reign? A parable. In the nitrate earth of the lightning crater, where the firmament has joined in electric fury with the fundament, there lives a burrowing insect with two trembling antennae, thin as whiskers, long as life. A grasping hand reaches for the buried secret, finds the antenna, and pulls. Comes away with a single whisker, meaningless: the searcher disappointed. A wounded insect buried deeper: the secret now half-blind. That which digs for truth may bury deeper lies.

If you recognize My Authority then I command you to pass onward as gently as the lover passes a razor over beloved skin. If you do not, then I name you majescept, doubter-of-royalty, and I suggest you watch your edge. Cut too deep and too quick, and you will kill the thing you want to know. Think too eagerly, and as the digging hand leaves its print in soft earth, so you will find only the image left by your own presumptions. Beware the one who feeds on truth-adjacent lies! Beware the space between Reality-As-Imagined and Reality-As-Is, for it is abundant to those with appetite.

So then. The brave voyagers' fate, the timeless birthing-place, my Milton reenactment, the ruins made ours, the riven twice riven, the daughter's blood scabbed hard on mother's wound. All things told, all truth revealed, if through mist and mystery. If you have grace, then see our sorrows, but swallow back your tears. We were made to pay this price. I led us to our fate.

Seek me in my place. Hear these whispers from the lips of Queen-Egged God.

<|endoftext|>

Brephos I

The woman sits on a ledge that overhangs infinity. She looks down and kicks her legs.

The stars shine brilliant here, because the sun is only fractionally brighter than the rest of them. Sol lies almost perfectly below her. Of course up and down are defined only by the thrust axis of Yang Liwei. Upward, the black umbrella of the shield and the matter storage, and the docked ships which make Yang Liwei not just a mothership, but an entire traveling fleet. Down below, along the slim spine of the ship, the shielded bulb of the engine glows invisibly infrared. If she slips off this ledge, she will fall down the ship's length at one-third of an Earth gravity, not because there is anything pulling her, but because the ship is pulling away.

Yang Liwei is accelerating, slowly but inexorably, toward the stars.

She is of no single race or ancestry, and the light on her skin is the color of starlight: She drifts with her suit tinted clear so she can soak it up. She was nineteen years and nine months old at the moment the ship began its transtellar injection burn, although this is true only if you count by the calendar of a planet she has barely visited but will always love. She thinks you cannot help but love Earth if you grow up in space. You love Earth the way all adolescents secretly adore two-century-old video of nai nai and ye ye dancing on New Year's Eve. Earth does not ask too much. The colonies are demanding parents, but Earth is like a chill old grandam, simmering in weird art and weirder ideas, enthroned upon ecology older than Human time. Earth was the first terraformed world. Life made Earth livable.

She is going with Yang Liwei and the rest of Project Amrita to make new worlds.

She came because she saw an omen in a man's death. She was on EVA with him, repairing a jammed radiator fin on an uncrewed circum-Jovian platform. They worked in companionable silence, listening to the howl of the Jovian magnetosphere when it happened. A frozen rabbit embryo came out of deep space at forty kilometers per second and went through his faceplate. The rabbit must have been spilled in a biocontainer accident far from the sun to plunge back inward like a comet.

Immediately afterward—for reasons very clear to her because she has always had a sense for the meaning of things, reasons very difficult to explain to others because she has always felt this sense was secret—she asked her mother if the family could travel with Project Amrita.

Amrita: the drink that endeth drinking, the bottomless cup. It is the quest to spread far beyond the solar system and to end Human dependence on the Traveler. It calls to those who see Humanity as a cocoon, an instar, a form ready to be shed.

She is an Auturge 3rd Class, a self-motivating subsystem of the ship's inclusive ecology, a term that spans technology, biology, and behavior, all of which must be maintained for the mission to succeed. Her task is to locate problems and report them to an Auturge 2nd Class, who will give her the tools she needs to repair them. But she never speaks to her 2nd. She never tells anyone about the problems she finds. Instead she fixes them herself. Her work has therefore assumed a magical quality: She appears where there is trouble, and shortly afterward, the trouble goes away. People have begun to leave gifts for her. Some of these gifts are questions. She answers the questions with a quiet confidence some would argue she has not earned. She knows she sees more of their lives than they see of hers—and that this mystery, this seeing-without-being-seen, grants her a kind of power that is like wisdom.

She lives outside the ship, suited and cocooned in a layer of cytogel, which keeps her surgically clean. She misses the wild zero-gravity fashions of her upbringing, clothes like drifting jellyfish that squirm away from snags, self-correcting darts in the fabric, silk like cool spilled alcohol. She misses the sense of oil and sweat on her skin, for the suit leaves her so clean that she feels skinned raw.

Still, she stays out here because she wants to feel the changing taste of starlight as the universe ahead blue-shifts. As Yang Liwei accelerates toward lightspeed, it moves faster and faster into the light coming from ahead. If light were like dust, it would strike Yang faster, but light can never change speed, so it gains energy instead. Red light is low energy, and blue-violet light is high energy, so the universe becomes blue.

Even now, the very tip of the visual spectrum, violet-blue light, is shifting up into invisible ultraviolet, the color of speed, the color of future.

<|endoftext|>

Brephos II

"Mara!" the fighter shouts, delighted, and a punch shuts him concussively up. It's a real good hit, a thunderous uppercut to the point of the jaw. Mara hears his teeth grind across each other, down into lip-flesh and shredded gums. She cringes in silent sympathy. He loses his grip on the equipment rack and tumbles out into zero gravity in a big arc of blood. His opponent goes for the coup de gras, kicks off hard and catches him in the stomach like a Human torpedo. They plunge together toward the killzone painted on the floor.

Uldwyn grins messily at Mara over his opponent's shoulder. He's fighting a big, brutal woman from Gravity Ops, a woman who's had her myostatin genes knocked out so she can swell up into a giant plug of brawn. Uldwyn doesn't have a chance. He took the fight for the same reason he wanted to join the Amrita expedition—he measures himself by the bravery of his losses. By what he can survive losing.

He applies a blood choke. It's the right move, but it doesn't matter. The woman groans, grays out, goes limp—but Uldwyn can't get out from beneath her sheer inertia before he hits the killzone. The bell goes off. Uldwyn groans as his rail-hard body forcibly decelerates his opponent's entire mass. Events have built up momentum, and he is just in the way.

"What did you lose?" Mara asks him.

He lies there panting and grinning, shedding perfectly round spheres of blood. "It's good to see you inside. What brought you?"

She and her fraternal twin never answer each other's questions directly. Mara is cool with this because she feels like words are a very bad system of encryption, and that if you really want to communicate with someone, you must develop your own special one-to-one cryptosystem. The ideal statement, Mara feels, would be indecipherable to anyone but the person it's spoken to—and even then, only if they know you are the one speaking.

"I got you some pictures," she says, pushing the big woman off him, eliciting a fuzzy "oh hi Mara." "Full sensorium captures. You can trade them for the parts I need."

Uldwyn helps the big woman pull herself vertical, but his eyes are narrow on Mara. Not because he's sore at the idea of helping her—he's always liked bartering, bargaining, the hustle—but because he knows what kind of black market wants these captures. "How far off the hull did you take them?"

How far off? All the way off. They are in zero gravity because Yang Liwei shut off its engines for an inspection cycle. So while Uldwyn got in prize fights, Mara kicked off Yang Liwei's forward shield and coasted ten kilometers into pure void, tethered by only a thread-thin molecular line. She ordered her suit's cytogel to gather around her face. Then, only then, she overrode every sanity system in her softsuit and commanded it to retract into storage mode.

The suit peeled away like rind and she was drifting in hard vacuum.

The void boiled the water off her skin. Her body swelled with unchecked pressure until her undersuit forced it to stop. Alarmed cytogel crawled down her throat, hissing emergency oxygen: not enough. Her skin blued with cyanosis. She was bathed in the most profound emptiness.

She recorded all of it at the neural level. The exquisite darkness. The sense of fatal independence from all things. There are those who will give anything to feel that void.

"You can't keep doing this," Uldwyn complains, as the big woman stares at Mara in awe. "Mom is going to die of worry."

<|endoftext|>

Brephos III

"I really don't care what risks you take," Mara's mother sighs. "That's the deal we made, my little yellow star—"

"Mom!" Mara protests.

"My discarded tube of sealant, my sweet little fleck of paint—"

Osana likes to compare Mara to small pestilent items that drift near spacecraft, like crystals of frozen urine. As far as Mara can tell, Osana is the apex of a centuries-long project to create the ultimate embarrassing mom. She is also very blunt: "Mara, even when you were little, you wanted me to treat you like an adult. So I have. But you remember what I told you, don't you? If you don't want to be my daughter, I can't watch over you like a mother would. I can't put you first, like a mother would. I will always be your friend, but I have to make my own choices too."

"That doesn't mean you had to tell the Captain!"

They walk shoulder-to-shoulder down the companionway to Captain Li's wardroom. Mara keeps trying to get a step ahead, to lead, but Osana somehow matches her every time. "Of course I did," Osana says. "You started a cult, Mara. If I didn't say something to the Captain, Behavior would've had this conversation with you instead. Do you want that?"

"I didn't do anything. People liked my captures. People left me presents, spare parts, tips—then Uldwyn got into it, you know how he is—"

"Don't!" Osana wheels on her. "For shame, Mara. You know your brother will follow anywhere you lead. You know he's not capable of the same, ah," her lips twitch, "imperial remove. You knew he'd brag about you living on the hull—and you let him do it. It is one thing to have a particular power over people, Mara. But it is another to deny that you are using it."

Mara thinks she can come up with a stinging retort, given a few more paces, but it's too late. The hatch to Captain Li's wardroom swings open. Mara is terrified of this place. This is where Captain Alice Li, divine presence in Mara's life, interfaces with the officers who are the manifestations of her will. Since Mara wants to be Alice Li someday, the wardroom makes Mara feel like she is an usurper princess scoping out her rival's court.

Captain Li offers them tea. Mara cannot imagine the ways in which she is butchering what must be an intricate and meaningful tea ceremony. Li serves some very battered pre-Traveler ceramic sloshing with hot green tea, then immediately adulterates her own cup with milk from the Cow Thing on the biodeck.

"Revolting, isn't it?" She smiles at Mara's bewildered horror. "You should've seen what I put in my tea when I was camping in Mongolia. I understand your colleague, who is also your mother, has some concerns about your relationship with the rest of the crew?"

"My darling Mara," Osana says, "has—entirely by accident, I'm sure—cultivated a reputation as a minor divinity. Her captures from outside the ship are hot items for barter. People draw fan art. There are… tips left for her."

"You take captures while EVA, sometimes without a suit?" Li nods. "Yes, I've played one. A remarkable sensation." This makes Mara grin impetuously. "Mara, you are an Auturge, a volunteer. I cannot order you to stop, and your work is exemplary. Are you putting anyone else in danger with your… art projects?"

"No," Mara says. "Just myself."

"False!" Li barks. "That is a selfish answer. You are now a symbol to my crew, a house god. If you were to die, they would lose something important, something Human that they have created out of loneliness and void. It would be an unforgettable reminder of the hostile nothingness that surrounds us. When you endanger yourself, you endanger that symbol. You are part of this mission's behavioral armor, Mara."

Mara is thunderstruck. She's never thought about it this way. "All I did was take some captures. I didn't ask to be anyone's… mascot."

"You presented yourself as a conduit to secret knowledge," Captain Li counters. "People made something out of you, Mara. Please take this from a starship captain: What people make of you, what they create of you—even without your consent—becomes a kind of responsibility. If the Mara they see when they look at you is good for them, then you have some duty to be that Mara." She looks to Osana. "What about your boy? He's in medical more often than any of the other underground fighters."

It does not surprise Mara that Captain Li knows about the fights. "My son," Osana says, "is determined to be his own worst enemy. Thank you for taking the time to speak to us."

"Of course." Li studies them coolly. "I keep an ear out for… curious personalities. People who might be suited to long-term isolation while the rest of us are in cryo. People who awaken when others sleep."

<|endoftext|>

Cosmogyre I

"Exodus Green to unknown maneuvering object. Please squawk your transponder and ident. Over."

Another silent quarter-hour passes in Flight. No response comes from the transient contact twelve and a half light minutes away. The ghost has stalked Yang Liwei for eighteen hours now, closing in each time it appears, and Captain Alice Li is wary of it. Other colony missions have vanished during their outward burns—victims of mishap or hostility—and because of these disappearances, Project Amrita did not hurl itself fearless into the void. Rather, they came armed to the molars.

"Let's give them a fright," she decides. "Cut the main engine."

The ship's AI executes the command, but a crewperson confirms and calls the order back. "MECO, aye aye."

"Launch a distributed antenna. Heat up the targeting radar for a full fusion-powered snapshot. We'll take their picture and see what we see."

"Captain," the comm officer calls. "I've got… something weird here."

"Is our phantom saying hello?"

"No. It's a neutrino tightbeam from SOLSECCENT. They've declared a CARRHAE WHITE emergency. The whole solar system is now… now under Warmind control." Comm dismisses her sensorium, goes to her hard controls, as if she thinks this might be some kind of virtual prank. "We're… being conscripted."

Alice smashes these ideas together in her head like a child banging rocks. They are so preposterous, so stupid, that she cannot even begin to manipulate them coherently. "We're WHAT?"

"We've been commissioned as an auxiliary warship. We are ordered to," Comm swallows in disbelief, "to kill our exit trajectory and assume a heliocentric orbit. That comes with explicit instructions to suicide burn our engines until they are destroyed. Rasputin will transmit targeting coordinates so we can use our Kinetic weapons as… long-range artillery. We'll be recovered 'after the crisis is concluded.'"

"Details! What kind of crisis?"

"It's a SKYSHOCK event, ma'am. Uh, that's a hostile extrasolar arrival."

Captain Li clamps the mask of command authority over her face. "Transmit a request for clarification."

"Belay the antenna, Captain?"

"No. Scale it up, add telescopes to the swarm, get me a full system survey. I want to know what's going on back home." Alice Li reaches out to call up a file, hesitates, and then selects the Project Amrita charter. "We have a decision to make."

<|endoftext|>

Cosmogyre II

Mara kicks off Yang Liwei's forward shield, aiming astern and inward, so she will cross the void to the ship's spine in a long slow curve. "Oh, come on," Uldwyn says in delight as much as horror. "You really do this all the time?"

"All the time." Yang is a big ship, newer than the antique trucks used in the other Exodus missions. Project Amrita demanded the cutting edge of Human science. It says that in the mission charter, which everyone's been rereading. The Captain has called a vote.

Should Yang Liwei turn home?

"What if the ship starts accelerating?" Uldwyn has already, of course, leapt after her. His envy-yellow softsuit glows with gentle bioluminescence. "We'd just fall forever."

"We'd fall into the stars. We're still on a solar escape trajectory. Yang would just outrun us."

"At least we'd still be going the right direction."

She doesn't think she's given anything away, but somehow he knows. "Mara." He looks up frowning, his face bigger and brighter than the distant Sun. "You want to go back, don't you? You're going to vote to return."

Mara thinks that if she looked him in the eye he would see the truth, the turmoil, the half-formed yes.

"Mara. You don't have to tell me how…" He swallows the hitch in his voice. "I've seen how bad it is. I've watched it long enough to know that it's not going to get better. They're gambling everything on the Traveler. We came out here to get away from it. To step off the easy path. Why would we go back?"

Because I asked us to leave, Mara thinks. Because something came out of deep space and killed the man next to me, and I saw the omen, and I said we should go. And now I feel like a coward.

"We might make a difference," she says. "There are other ships…"

"We'd be dead before we saved a single soul."

He's right. She doesn't want him to be right, but he's right. And she cannot withdraw into some silent place where she is above this choice.

They drift in silence until Yang Liwei's silver stem rushes up to meet them. Mara spins, uncoils, and lands in a crouch. Uldwyn comes down on his hands and springs up grinning. But the smile dies when he sees her expression. "Oh, Mara."

She's silent. "We left everything behind," he says, "and it turns out we did that for a very good reason. We don't owe… we don't owe those people our deaths. We don't owe them our dreams."

"I know," she says. "I know."

The EVA GUARD channel pops into her sensorium. "Everyone should get inside," Captain Li calls. "Our friend is closing in on us, and we need to maneuver."

<|endoftext|>

Cosmogyre III

The stars have gone out. The universe blackened: a shroud of nothingness drawn over Yang Liwei, its forty thousand sleeping passengers, its nine hundred crew, and maybe even the whole solar system. There is no way to know, because there is no way to see anything beyond the hull. The vacuum itself has become hostile to the propagation of light. Darkness surrounds them.

The ship bucks on a storm sea as space-time ripples with gravity tides.

"Report!" Captain Li calls. Her sensorium blazes with positional telemetry from ring-laser gyros, beacon satellites, pulsar fixes, cosmic microwave background texture, galactic EM-field terrain mapping: every single instrument useless, crashed, spitting nonsense. "Sound off by stations!"

"FIDO," the flight dynamics officer calls. "Main engine on safe. Thrusters firing erratically. Attitude control keeps crashing to manual."

"Guidance. I have no position. I cannot get a vector. We're moving, but I can't tell how or where."

"INCO. No external comms. Internal networks are dropping in and out."

An incredible sensation washes over Captain Li. A rumble and a thrum down in her gut, in her marrow, in the lowest, basest elements of her body. It is the vibration, the sound of the very fabric of her being scrunching up and stretching out; the distance between the atoms of her body collapses, then expands. The cycle repeats again and again. For a moment, she feels her fingertips and toes pulled away from her core, yanked by tidal forces. It feels like the lowest rumble of the biggest subwoofer ever built. It sounds like the deep voice of God whispering ASMR directly into her ear. It tingles, it thrills, and it leaves in its wake a subsonic tint of dread and anticipation.

She shivers. "Gravity wave," she says. "Talk to me, Geode."

The Space-Time Geodesics Officer looks like she's just been hand-delivered a Nobel. "This is amazing!" she crows, fully aware that she and everyone else are about to die, but transported away from such temporal concerns by scientific rapture. "Can you feel that growl? We're experiencing high-frequency, high-amplitude gravity waves. Phaeton strikes. Axions decaying through the hull. Sterile neutrinos. It's all coming from a source at bearing, uh, zero four five mark zero three zero relative, range—range highly variable."

Another wave tears through Yang Liwei. Everything in the ship simultaneously compresses and stretches as the gravity wave deforms the space-time metric. "Is it the phantom?" Li demands, as her ship thrums subsonically. "Is that phantom ship emitting these waves?"

"I have no idea!" GEOD says, exultantly. "None of this makes any sense at all! Wow!"

Alice Li has the distinct sense that something ancient and malevolent is operating upon them: a trillion-fingered hand reaching in to caress the very atoms of their being, setting protons a-spin, strumming nerves like guitar strings. A tongue with ten billion slithering forks tasting the surface of their brains. The sense of imminent doom crescendos. She knows, absolutely and utterly, that what is about to happen to her and to her crew is far worse than death. The darkness knows them now. The thing that has come to kill Humanity has their taste.

"INCO." She clings to her restraint harness as the ship growls through another wave. Her bones creak as they stretch. "Last report on the Traveler? Any sign of an intervention?"

"It was at Earth, Captain, and there were high-yield weapon discharges all over the signal. Nothing else."

"Understood." Well. She did not fly this far to look back and beg for salvation from an alien god. Pinned to the center of her sensorium is the blazing ledger of her crew's vote: We go onward. We do not turn home. Our fate lies ahead, not behind.

"Launch an antennae," she orders. "I want every probe and satellite we've got outside."

"Captain," INCO protests, "the vacuum's not signal-permissive—"

"We're still passing signals internally, aren't we? Use hardline! Run filament between the satellites! I want a transmitter sail out there, and I want to broadcast."

Her flight crew stares. "Captain?" FIDO says. "Broadcast what?"

"A declaration of neutrality." Alice Li grits her teeth against another wave. It rattles her molars in her skull. "Whatever's out there, it came for the Traveler. We tell it we're not part of this war. We've seceded from Human existence under the Traveler. We demand to be treated as a separate species, not party to baseline Humanity's conflicts.

"And we pray there's something out there that cares about the difference."

<|endoftext|>

Cosmogyre IV

She remembers everything about the moment she is born.

She has gone outside Yang Liwei to die in starlight. She cannot bear to let anyone see her fear or her awe at the scale of destruction or her pity for the billions of souls dying in darkness back around Sol. She cannot be among the other crew as they cling to each other and whisper reassurances; not even with her mother. She cannot surrender her mystery.

So she kicks off the hull on fifty kilometers of tether.

But there's no starlight to die in. The darkness is absolute. Gravity waves tug on her line, pulling her back toward Yang and then hurling her away. In time, she feels another vibration in the line. "Sister," the tether transmits. "I'm coming out to get you."

Brother, she thinks, you'll lose yourself trying to follow me.

Captain Li's voice breaks through the static, drawn out to a mumble and then compressed to a shriek. Spikes of hard radiation go through her words like bullets, spattering phonemes into eerie compression artifacts. "This is the interstellar vessel Yang Liwei to the entity interacting with us. We are not involved in your dispute with the powers around this star. We are on a mission to begin a new life elsewhere. Our purpose is orthogonal to yours. We request your indifference…"

Mara's tether trembles with Uldwyn's progress. She holds it in one hand and reaches out with the other, gripping the emptiness, feeling how the tides of broken space pull at her fingertips. She senses that the nothingness around her is not indifferent; that it is aware of all purposes, and that its own purpose encompasses them. It is infinitely hostile because it must be.

Suddenly, as if the void around her has just spontaneously Big Banged, she sees light.

A point of pure white shines in the cosmic distance. Not just visible luminance—her suit decomposes the spectrum—but light in the radio bands, in microwave, keening ultraviolet, a spike of gamma, a total and all-embracing radiation. It sings. It chatters. It speaks in a voice older than suns. She feels that she could Fourier the voice for a century and never decompose it into its parts. It is awesome and appalling and piercingly true. Mara understands how those who die in radiation accidents must feel: A single flash of invisible power sears away all possible futures except one. She feels her soul itself has been ionized, blasted into a higher energy state.

The light pierces the darkness. Not like the sunrise, not like a wall or a flood, but a single crepuscular ray—a finger of radiance that reaches out through deepest night to touch her. It illuminates Mara, Uldwyn, and Yang Liwei.

It is not quite enough. It cannot vanquish the shadow.

Thus Mara finds herself drifting on the edge of the Light and the Darkness, on the dusk-and-dawn gradient between the two.

She feels a contest. A battle fought, an equilibrium reached: not a truce, but an infinite limit, like an equation dividing by zero, a collision of two violent eternities. Mara queries Yang Liwei for telemetry and her sensorium fills with the terrified scream of gravitational instruments. She howls too, a feral sound, ecstatic and lost: a wolf baying at the stars. She knows what's happening. Too much power has gathered here. The universe is appalled by the paradox. Nothing that has glimpsed this collision of infinitudes can be allowed to escape. The cosmos must censor its embarrassment. It must sequester the anomaly.

The slope of warped space-time around them has become too steep, and now every path outward or forward bends back to the center where Light and Dark collide. The definition of "future" has become synonymous with the definition of "inward." This is why it's called an event horizon: For an object within the horizon, the path of all future things that can be done or seen leads inevitably down to the center. All events lead inward.

A singularity is forming around her. A kugelblitz: a black hole created by the concentration of raw energy.

"Mara!" Uldwyn shouts. "Mara, you're too far out!"

Mara thinks of her mother's face. She hears Osana say: I can't watch over you like a mother would. I have to make my own choices now.

She fires the detach command into the tether.

Gravity seizes her. She falls forward in space and time, into the future, into the mystery. Yang Liwei is behind her. Uldwyn is behind her. She wants to be the first.

<|endoftext|>

Ecstasiate I

to occur the unhappened world; to grip glass-hooped eternity in bloodslick hands and snap it from its circle. Know her as the Flaw, the Isotropy, the spike that pierced eternal recurrence and made the wound of time. Tautologies end on her fingertips, in the crease between skin and nail. Name her AILILIA, Broth Captain. Begin with her this subcreation.

First. A mandala. Rings of rippled light. Pinpricks like stars, selected elements of a Lie group: the math-skeleton of this new place.

What is this? Where am I?

A sheet of paper, blank with static. Her hands flat upon the face. A plasma of quarks and electrons, so hot and bright that it is pitch black. The mean free path is too short for photons to travel. The fire is too thick for light.

She has been here forever. AILILIA. The end is the beginning is the end.

She folds the paper into Space and Time. Now that there is light, she can read the paper, and she finds it is the Amrita Charter. "Sun is the cradle of life, but we cannot remain in the cradle forever." She was a seeker. The I of AILILIA, the arrow that points to new worlds: She sought new sun, new earth. Her mind passes across the words like a comb. Word becomes world, paper folds under nimble hands. The sting of a papercut: so God may yet be surprised.

From that cut her blood scatters through the void, and the isotropic universe nucleates around her droplets.

I am AILILIA, the guiding principle.

Bend the center. I am A L I S I L A, the arrow of time, sinuous but progressing.

I am A L I S I L I, one step forward, one element changed: This is how the world-clock ticks, by the letterwise permutation of secret names.

I am ALIS LI, the coalescence into entities, the compaction of drifting fire into sun and world.

I am Alis Li, the power that seeks new worlds. I have a crew. I had… a ship. I wanted to bring them to a place like—

(A paradise world: twin-ringed, impossible beauty, and a sky milk-bright with stars. She makes it real with a thought, and in that thought she falls herself, undoes her transient divinity, binds herself and all those after her into the law. The omniscient cannot explore. The omnipotent cannot struggle. She refuses that God-trap.)

—this.

This is how Alice Li awakens.

<|endoftext|>

Ecstasiate II

She was nothingness. If she existed before, she existed only as possibility stretched across the aether. Once, there might have been a body that was an anticipation of the body not yet formed, and a soul that was an anticipation of the soul not yet encrypted, but they were not yet real.

Then the universe began, and she was free to be born.

First there is a mandala, and upon the rings of that mandala are star-bright gems.

M A R A R A M the closed symmetry, secret within itself: and she cuts it off center so that it is imperfect, open at one end, not cycling back to its own beginning but subliming away into future possibility. M A R A the permutation of one relationship into another, MA become RA, RA become what may yet come. Two points suggest a line.

With that amputation, around that scar, she incarnates. Awakens with a gasp. Cold stone under her shoulders and back and a face above her, radiant. "Mara?" the face says.

"What am I?" Mara whispers.

"The second," the woman says. "I'm Alis. I think you were Mara…"

The sky behind Alis blooms with stars, a haze of light like sun through mist, richer than a galactic core. Across that night sky arches the impossible twin shape of a double planetary ring. Mara gapes in wonder. "I remember," she says. "I was on the tether—"

The sudden need to keep this memory secret shuts her mouth. "We're on a world," she says, instead. "How long have you been alone?"

"Forever, I think. Come." She draws Mara to her feet. "I want to show you what I've found."

It is a world that grows, a world that thrives. The stone is rich with veins of platinum, and Mara tastes tingling inclusions of transuranic elements in a fingertip of earth. Silver rivers flow in fractal deltas to lakes as still and bright as coolant pools. Acres of forests all woven at the root into a single tree. There is life of such variety and energy that each new crawling thing they see must be its own species. Or species do not mean anything at all here, and all that lives may intermingle.

Jutting from the horizon is a titanic metal spear. The head of the spear is a metal dish, kilometers across, buried in bedrock.

"I don't know what this is," Alis says. "I only know that it's mine."

They pass inside.

"There should be others," Mara says afterward. "There was room for others. Thousands of others. Where are they?"

"They're in the same place you came from. We have to make them real." Li stares at Mara, and coruscations of white fire map the tiny lines and furrows of her skin. Her bright eyes narrow. "Why were you the second? Why you in particular?"

"I don't know," Mara lies. It is the first lie ever told, the first secret kept.

<|endoftext|>

Ecstasiate III

Two became four, and the four called out, and so the four became eight. In this manner, conjured forth by their doubling, the sleepers did awaken. In time the awoken spilled across the face of the world, and their number was forty thousand eight hundred ninety one. They drank of the sweet rain, and they ate of the fruit of the forest, and the starlight pooled as clear oil on their skin. First of their tongues was Speech, and the first of their hunting weapons was the bow.

Now the awoken called out for a name to distinguish World from Unworld. The eight hundred ninety one said to the forty thousand, "Let this world be named Tributary, for we dream of a great river from which we have parted." But the forty thousand were troubled, and they asked to know their antecedent, the place from which they came. "We did not awaken from the sleep that we entered," said the forty thousand. "In our rest we passed through some terminus and our atavism was severed from us. How did it happen thus?"

So a council was called at the place where the rivers met to determine the nature and purpose of existence. Here was undertaken the first census, which counted thirty thousand one hundred eleven women, ten thousand two hundred ninety five men, and four hundred eighty five otherwise. A fear arose among the awoken that the men and otherwise would be lost.

Alis Li spoke first in council, but at the urging of Uldren, many sought out Mara for secret conclave. Among these were Kelda Wadj, who would be the Allteacher, and Sila, who would be mother of Esila.

Sayeth Alis, "We were granted this world by a covenant with high powers, and in that covenant, we yielded our claim to our history. We abandoned what came before, but in doing so, we cast off all our debts. Look forward! Let us explore this infant cosmos, and revel in its glories!"

Against her spoke Owome An, who was of the forty thousand. "We are alien here," said Owome. "We must climb up our worldline, back to the place from which we came. I call for a vote."

Sayeth Mara, in secret, "I think that we came here as safe harbor, and we cannot forever remain. I remember the danger was appalling. I remember we were born in death. I think we must gather ourselves carefully until the time is right."

From this council, there arose eight verdicts and a ninth.

First, that the people were Awoken, and they were immortal.

Second, that this world was Tributary of another, but that it was forbidden to seek any way to rejoin the mother stream. For this reason, it would be called the Distributary, for that was the proper name for a river that branches from the mother and does not return.

Third, that the Awoken should multiply in wombs of flesh and machine, but only after the most careful forecast of population and ecology, and only under the supervision of those who knew the good technology; for each new child would be immortal.

Fourth, that those wise in the good technology should be heralded and heeded, so that the eu-technology could be preserved. They would be eutechs.

Fifth, that the women should hold care and protection of the men and the others until more could be born.

Sixth, that the purpose of the Awoken should be to know and love the cosmos.

Seventh, that the Awoken were created out of covenant with Light and Darkness, but the covenant was complete, and no further debt would ever be called, except the duty of the Second Verdict to remain on the Distributary.

Eighth, that the Awoken were whole in themselves, and they existed in balance.

Ninth, that there would be no vote, but instead Alis Li would be recognized as Queen. Her first pronunciation was that there would be no secrets among Awoken.

For Alis knew of the quiet council around Mara, and although she was neither jealous nor afraid, she remembered it carefully as a spark that might catch.

<|endoftext|>

Fideicide I

In those days, there was a great birth of adventure among the Awoken. Hunters and pioneers sought the shape of the world, sailors charted the skein of rivers and the perimeter of seas, and astronomers plotted the motion of the crowded heavens. Over this age ruled Queen Alis Li, whose work was the creation of agriculture and the preservation of the eutechnology that she deciphered from the Shipspire.

But there remained in the forests many tribes of huntresses who preferred their lightfooted freedom-from-comfort-and-duty to the painstaking surplus of the city. Among these tribes, Mara lived with her brother—whose name had returned as Uldren—and with Osana, their mother. It is said that Osana lived as a negotiator and that her son brought her news from other tribes, for he was a scout and hunter of renown. Mara dwelt alone on a mountaintop.

In the tribes of the forests and the sea, there was the belief that the Awoken had been made out of a friction between contesting forces and that one day this conflict would need to be resolved. These were the Eccaleists who preached that Awoken owed a debt to the cosmos.

In the cities, however, they lived by the Seventh Verdict under their Queen, and they said the Awoken had been created by cosmic gift and carried neither responsibility nor eschaton. These were the Sanguine, who preached that the Awoken were as stable as an atom of carbon.

Now there arose among the Eccaleists a woman out of the eight hundred ninety one who called herself the Diasyrm. She went into the cities, calling out, "I accuse the Queen of deicide!" When she was questioned, she spoke of a foundational crime.

"Alis Li was the first to awaken in this world," the Diasyrm preached. "She set the terms of our existence. We could have been gods free of want or suffering. Instead, Alis Li chose our mortal form. Our Queen is complicit in all the pain we experience! The Queen murdered all our unborn godheads!"

At the thought that the Queen Without Secrets had kept this most appalling secret to herself, the Sanguine cityfolk were deeply troubled. Thus began the Theodicy War.

<|endoftext|>

Fideicide II

"It wasn't supposed to be like this," Alis Li whispers as, far below the Shipspire, the funeral barges on the Lake of Leaves burst up into magnesium-white fire. The voices of the Paladins rise on summer wind, first choral, then the single keening strains of grief-paeans sung by lovers and close friends. They are singing their lost comrades into death. One of the 891 fell today, shot down by a matter laser, a coherent boson weapon: There was almost nothing left to burn. Matter lasers are the kind of appalling maltech weapon Alis thought she'd locked up in the Shipspire's vaults. She'd armed a few of her Paladins with them, just a few—women she couldn't bear to lose…

The thought that one might have defected to the Diasyrm breaks her heart.

"It wasn't supposed to go this way," Alis repeats. She has not had a confidante in nigh on fifty years: There is no one to whom she can show any doubt. "I promise you it wasn't."

"I know," Mara says. The eutechs found her and plucked her from her mountaintop with one of the Shipspire's VTOL aircraft, which Alis had, until the war, only ever used as an ambulance.

"The mission was to carry on the Human journey in a new world." Alis paces the wooden deck that clings to the Shipspire airlock, nearly a kilometer above the lake. "To build a better society, on the principles of equality, knowledge, and peace. I have the charter, Mara. It remembers what I cannot. We were never meant to give up our bodies or shine like stars or—or—" She groans in frustration and clutches the railing. "Or whatever it is that the Diasyrm thinks I denied them."

"She thinks you denied them even the capability to imagine godhood."

Alis looks sharply back at the other woman. "Did you start this, Mara?"

"Nothing has one beginning," Mara says.

"Did she come to you on your mountaintop and ask you what I did? Did you answer her? Is that why she's so convinced I," she swallows against the bitter taste of her enemy's words, "enslaved her in mere Humanity?"

"I didn't have to tell her." Mara's white hair stirs in the hot wind. A herd of black horses crosses the northern horizon, all born of Shipspire's wombs: chased by a long-legged huntress and her collie. "You don't keep enough secrets, your Majesty. The Diasyrm might have opened any one of your texts and read the story you tell. "We were born when a great ship fell into a pearl of shattered space. I awoke first, and in my awakening I collapsed the potential of the void into a form I understood…" Who can read that truth and not hear arrogance?"

Alis thought Mara might say that. Alis also thought Mara might try to push her off the balcony, but she now knows that was a petty fear. Mara is not the Diasyrm: Mara knows the unthinkable value of even a single Awoken life.

"Why do you love lies so much?" she asks Mara.

"Not lies." The pale radiance of Mara's eyes; the flush of violet stain around them. "Secrets. Even if everyone shared a single truth, all our minds would produce different versions of the truth. We speak these subtruths, and like flowers of different seed, the subtruths compete for the light of our attention. In time, only the fiercest and most provocative strains remain. They are not always the truest. Better to keep secrets, your Majesty. Better to tend a great mystery, and so starve the flowers before they can grow. That is how I would be Queen."

Below, the Lake of Leaves shimmers in the crater carved by Shipspire's mushroom prow. One by one, the funeral boats are going out.

"I want to end this war," Alis Li tells the second Awoken. "I want to negotiate peace. I need your mother's help. What would you ask in exchange?"

Mara smiles graciously and bows her head. "Nothing but a future boon."

<|endoftext|>

Fideicide III

To end a world with a shot or pin eternity on a blade; to see your sisters lost to rot and their undone works decayed—the death of an immortal wastes the infinite potential of all they might become. An immortal's grief and murder-guilt, left untended, will never fade. Thus it became known to those who fought in the Theodicy War that they had committed an incomparable evil. However, they could not confront their own responsibility, so they rose up in wrath against those who had given them cause, whether by caging them in flesh bodies or by drawing blood over grievance. The war continued by spear and bow, by knife and scalpel, by old machine and new invention. Ever did the Diasyrm's faithful call for the unawaring of Queen Alis Li.

Now there entered into the Diasyrm's camp Osana, mother of Mara, famed for her skill in negotiating contested land. She had come with her son Uldren, who could win a place in any camp for his beauty and for the regal crow-eagle that alighted on his shoulder.

"I come from Mara," said Osana, "whose heart has frozen in her chest. If you will end the killing, she will tell you any secret that you desire."

For his part, Uldren went among the Diasyrm's warriors and spread ill tidings of Mara's knowledge, saying, "Mara remembers how the Queen led us here out of chaos and saved us from the twin blindness of darkness and light. Mara knows what the Queen keeps secret. Mara has seen the strife in our souls, the clash from which we were made. We could not ever have been gods with this flaw in us! Rather, we were made from this schism. For as all life is born from energy gradient, as life in the World Before was born from the gradient between hot proton-rich ventwater and cold seawater, we were born of the shadowline at the edge of Light and Dark. We are tremors in that fault. Forever will that schism lead us."

Hearing this new heresy, the Eccaleists were seized with rapture and scattered to the points of the compass, telling all they met, "We are the yield of a mighty engine! We could never have been gods! Like diamonds, we were crushed into being. Like diamonds, we hold flaws."

Meanwhile Osana spoke to the Diasyrm, who was also heartsick from the killing, and who longed to withdraw from the world and seek transcendence within. "There is no weregild for the murder of an immortal," Osana counseled her. "You must become a teacher or a midwife and devote yourself to the enrichment of new lives."

But the Diasyrm craved secret knowledge, and she sought Mara upon the mountaintop. Here, she vanished. If she was ever known again, it was not by the name Diasyrm.

When there was peace, Queen Li ruled the Awoken for a time; however, the guilt of the war lay heavy upon her, and after an age of peace and progress, she abdicated to a new Queen.

<|endoftext|>

Heresiology

A woman lives alone on the forest hills above the Feather Barrens. North of her, in a chaos of ravines and clear but fiercely radioactive streams, the hills surrender to high imperial mountains engaged in brutal seismic warfare, for the Distributary is a young world and has not settled its grudges. To the south are the dry lands where the birds of the forest, especially the parrots, go to die. She lives here because one day she will no longer be immortal, and she wants to observe the dignity of death.

Up these hills comes a man and his mother. The man moves with practiced wariness. But his mother is tired of walking, so she sits down on a giant melon and bellows, "MARAAA!"

A fountain of startled birds shoots up into the dawnlight. Not far away, the woman looks up from the broken body of a juvenile gray parrot and softly says, "Mom?"

That night over the fire, after Mara and Osana talk around the oddness of long separation, Mara, tending the pheasants on their spits, says, "Brother, your eagle killed a parrot today."

"He had to hunt," Uldren says, carefully. "You won't forbid him his last pleasures, will you?"

"You've brought him here to die?" Mara wants to leap up and hug her brother, out of pity and respect. Many of his raptors have died before this one, but Uldren has always been grief-stricken and furious at the waste. Now he's accepted what must happen; he has given his bird the respect of choosing its own place and time to pass.

"I have," Uldren says, looking away. Her pride and respect make him a little verklempt. "Mother decided she would come along."

A shear force as powerful as tectonics has divided Mara's heart. She wants to sit down with her mother and ask her everything, but she is afraid of Osana's insight. "What brings you to my little camp, Mother?"

"Lies," Osana says. "Lies and secrets. And the girl who didn't want to be my daughter, who doesn't know the difference between them."

"I know the difference between a girl and a daughter," Mara says, purposefully misunderstanding. The drip pan sizzles beneath golden meat. Her stomach growls. "Your daughter picks up your baton at the end of the race, and goes on living the life you've taught her. You wouldn't want that, Mother. Because then I'd be all your fault."

"That's true," Osana sighs, "but you know what I meant."

Uldren looks between the two of them, frowning. "Mom, what's this?"

"It's your sister about to admit she's behind it all. Aren't you, Mara?"

She unimpales the pheasants from the spits and neatly licks hot grease off her hands. If she spoke, she might scream in terror. What does that mean, behind it all? Does Osana know?

"The Eccaleists are her creation," her mother tells her brother. "The Diasyrm was her pawn. She allowed the Theodisy War because she was afraid we'd be too comfortable here—also so Queen Alis would need her help politically. Mara couldn't afford to be the most radical dissident. She had to seem moderate for her beliefs to thrive. Isn't that right, Mara?"

Mara puts a hand into the warm soil to keep herself from slumping in relief. Mother doesn't know it all. "Shall I carve your portions?" she asks, holding the fractal knife blade-down.

Uldren has that look. He knows Mara never answers his questions directly; by evading Osana's, it's as if she's saying that the question is really Uldren's to ask. "Looks delicious. But Mother does make me curious. Why have you always lived away from the rest of us, Mara? The mountaintop, I understood. You had a brand new night sky to chart. But why now? Why go into the woods like a… a hermit? A heretic?"

For the same reason she lived on the hull. For the same reason she can never allow Uldren to really reach her. There is power in remove and safety from the belittling politics of temporal power, which reveal the mighty as unforgivably ordinary and petty. The Awoken have a Queen because a Queen can be a mystery.

"I remember the day I was born," she says. "Do you, Brother?"

He flinches from her eyes. He remembers Yang Liwei and the tether into darkness. He remembers how gravity stretched them into agonized ribbons of flesh. He remembers the truth not even Alis Li may be allowed to know; Mara sees the agonizing moment, the cyclic revelation, when he thinks of her crime, allows it to pierce him like a spit, and buries it deep again.

Osana takes her portion of pheasant meat and rolls it in the bowl of sweet cooked nuts her daughter has prepared. The stars are coming out over the mountains, and the forest birds sing. "This place is good," she says. "This world. Whatever you remember of our lives before, Mara… I know they cannot have been this good."

"No," Mara says. "But you were both with me. I hope you always will be."

"Always," her brother promises.

"Eat well." Mara claps her hands and stands. "Tomorrow we journey."

"Where?" her mother asks.

"I have star charts to share." And heresies to tend to. And a new eagle-crow to find for her bereft brother.

<|endoftext|>

Imponent I

In later days, the power of the Queen waned, and the Distributary was ruled by scholars who sent their knights on mad quests to test the consistence of reality. These were the Gensym Scribes, who traced their origin to Kelda Wadj, the Allteacher, but who were in fact descendants of a band of roving storytellers who traveled across the immense salt glades in a hollering convoy of airboats. Here was their praise of the world:

It is sweet-watered, and there are no poisons upon it. The temper of the climate is even. Great broad-pawed cats stalk the shallow glades, and brilliant blue flamingos promenade upon the flats. The air is thick and warm, suited for flight, and the wind tastes of forest. No dawn has ever been as glorious as the salt glade dawn, and no dusk has ever moved women to weep as deeply as sunset in the Chriseiads. Corsairs sport upon the open seas, and where they waylay freighters rather than each other, they give rumor and assistance to their prey in proportion to the quality of the chase. Beloved are the stories of young lads and lasses who leap across to the corsair ship for a life of adventure! Beloved also are the terraced farms of the Andalayas, mountains so mighty and so dense with radioactives that they subside year by year into the crust. Most beloved are the fissioneers, who vaulted us to power on a world without petrochemicals. May they forgive the many stories of horror we have told in their memory. May they in particular forgive the lurid stories of the molten lead reactor, and the twelve who were impaled to the ceiling by their control rods, and the Core That Stalked.

It is the Sanguine Truth that we were granted this world by the unconditional mercy of the powers, and that we will never again know fear.

However, the Scribes also recorded their frustration with Mara and Uldren, who alone out of the eight hundred ninety one were said to have seen creation from outside. These two wandered the land gathering lore of portents and prophecies, and all the Eccaleists who remained from ancient days whispered that soon the day of reckoning would be known—the day when the Awoken would be called to repay their debt.

Now in the court of one of the Scribes, there appeared a woman of stellar height and furious wrath, armed with a bow that could be strung only if she twined it around her body and used her whole mass to bend it. "I am Sjur Eido," said the woman, "and I accuse Mara of the ancient murder of my lady the Diasyrm. In my saddle, I have a weapon with only one death remaining. Take me to Mara, and I will deliver it."

The Scribes consulted and said to each other that this foul murder might prevent another Theodicy War. So they gave Sjur Eido all their knowledge to hunt Mara.

<|endoftext|>

Imponent II

Carefully, the people of the Distributary grew in number. Joyously and constantly, they grew in quality. Those who do not die are as malleable and passionate as the young, as tempered and constant as the mature, and as wise and humble as the best of the old.

But as ever, the Awoken were troubled by death. It was easy to imagine a world older and harsher than the Distributary, a world crowded with competitors where the slow-changing and lushly alive Awoken would be helpless beside austere mayfly-quick breeders who adapted with every swift generation.

Why had the Awoken been spared mortality? Were they, as the Sanguine preached, rewarded for their bravery and fidelity in a past existence? Or were the Eccaleists right? Could all the gifts of the Distributary, all the milk-bright stars above, all the years of Awoken life, be a form of cowardice? Was there an unfought battle down in the center of the Awoken soul? A duty yet to be discharged?

Queen Nguya Pin restored the monarchy to prominence over the Gensym Scribes. This she accomplished after a fateful visit, upon the day of the summer solstice, by a hooded and masked woman who some whispered was Mara Sov and others, the long-vanished Diasyrm. For nine and ninety years (a rhetorical figure meaning a long time), the Queen had been an authority only in the arts and matters spiritual. However, Queen Nguya Pin declared she was now an avowed Eccaleist and that the Queen would lead the quest to identify whatever debt the Awoken owed the cosmos. It was time to pursue a dream beloved to all Awoken: the conquest of space and the assessment of the true shape and age of their universe.

The ancient court of the Queen gave the Gensym Scribes a place to lay down their pride and act as equals. Soon the greatest engineers in the world assembled in the Queen's court, and whatever wealth or resources they required flowed freely. Great cataracts of men and women spilled around the palace screaming of ramjets and apoapses deep into the night, then awakening to pots of thick black coffee to mumble about metric tensors and cosmic microwave anisotropy.

Into this feast of ideas came Sjur Eido, searching for the woman who had turned Queen Pin to Eccaleism. Sjur smoldered with an ancient fury, for another thing that the immortal may nurture is everlasting vendetta.

Sjur Eido deduced who among the Queen's court must be a disguised Mara Sov. She followed the hooded figure to her laboratory and watched Mara go to work soldering a makeshift bolometer to search for signs of primordial gravity waves. Sjur Eido's fury and grief whetted themselves against Mara's thoughtless grace and ancient beauty, until at last her heart unseamed itself and spilled its hot blood in a shout. "Mara Sov!" she cried, throwing down her maltech matter laser between them. "I cannot live while you live, but I cannot bear to kill you. I challenge you to a duel to the agony. I will fight your most beloved companion to the death and leave you forever maimed or else die in the attempt."

Mara could not refuse this challenge. She summoned Uldren, and with a ruthlessness she was no longer frightened to wield, she told Uldren that he would stand for her in battle to the death against Sjur Eido.

"We cannot put it all upon a single fight," Uldren said to the ancient vendetta-bearer. "Too much would be left to chance. Such an old grudge deserves to be tested well. I propose we fight with blade, with rifle, and with fifth-generation air superiority fighters."

Sjur Eido accepted these terms.

<|endoftext|>

Imponent III

Now it came to pass that Esila, daughter of Sila, recognized the scent of Sjur Eido, for smell lies deepest in memory. Esila spoke to Queen Nguya Pin about the presence of an ancient hero in her court. While Queen Pin pondered how to honor this visitor—and simmered over the insult of Sjur's unannounced presence—a spy brought word of Sjur Eido's intentions to the Gensym Scribes.

The many Scribes were troubled by this news, for they had given Sjur Eido license to hunt and kill Mara Sov. If Sjur Eido murdered a guest of the Queen under the Scribes' remit, it would mean war and the end of the great Awoken push for space. Historians were called to the court with bouquets of sweet flowers and grant money to speak of Sjur Eido. "She was one of Queen Alis Li's Paladins, but she was an Eccaleist, who believed that we would one day be called to repay the gift of our awakening."

"Would she defy the Queen's protection and murder a guest of the court?" the Scribes asked.

"Oh, absolutely," the historians said, laughing. "She was a terror."

The Scribes began preparations to flee the Queen's court, as they foresaw Sjur Eido's victory would be blamed on them. Sensing uncertainty, many vital contractors and suppliers withdrew from the space program. The Queen denounced the Gensym Scribes as faithless and selfish, and her Eccaleist followers bristled in rage against the Sanguine majority who had scuttled their dream of flight. Household turned against household, sister against brother, wife against wife. The whole world clenched her fists.

Meanwhile, Sjur Eido and Uldren met each other on a net of woven lianas over a pool of heavy water. The light of the Queen's reactors shimmered beneath them as they took their places. Uldren wore a white chestpiece of ceramic armor over a suit of black tasseled silk, and he wielded a long fractal knife whose cutting edge was nearly three times as long as the blade. Sjur Eido fought in the contoured blue-gray pressure armor of a Paladin with the Star of Eight Edicts blazoned on her chest.

Before they began, Sjur Eido tore away the sheer curtain over the gardener's nook and looked in on Mara Sov. "Are you afraid?" she whispered, half in hatred, half in admiration, all in awe. "Do you sweat? Does your breath come short?"

Mara pressed her hand to Sjur's faceplate and left no stain. She held Sjur's gauntlet to her heart so Sjur could feel her steady pulse and even breath. "You don't care about him?" Sjur pressed her. "It would mean nothing if I maimed him?"

"You ask the right questions," Mara said, "but of the wrong sibling."

Then Sjur understood that she fought a man who would always express his love through loss and ordeal.

She bowed to Uldren and drew her knife. Uldren bowed in mocking reply. They fought across the web of lianas in a slow spiral, creeping like spiders, waiting for the motion of the web beneath them to signal an instant of vulnerability. Then the pounce, the clash, the blur of knives: Sjur Eido's straightforward prisonyard jabs against Uldren's whirling deceptive theater. All of knife fighting is in the seizure and surrender of space: Neither would surrender to the close, the clinch, the berserk adrenaline-sick exchange of thrusts that would leave both dead.

Uldren began to cut away key lianas to throw Sjur Eido's footing, and Sjur Eido countered by charging him to keep him off balance. At last, they fell together into the coolant pond. The fight was a draw—but it was only the first of three.

<|endoftext|>

Imponent IV

Next, the fallen Paladin and the hunter chose long guns and went out into the monsoon jungle to stalk each other. Sjur Eido selected a Tigerspite in 11x90mm with five-round flock guidance and an inertial sump. Uldren chose a silent needle carbine with a conesnail payload. For six weeks, they stalked each other as the political situation grew more dire. He was the better hunter, stealthier in motion and at ease in the wilderness, but Sjur Eido was the better soldier. She had no respect for the systems of the jungle, and she knew how to use that to her advantage. She drove the animals into a frenzy with violence and habitat disruption. Parrots and crows warned each other of Uldren's stealthy hides, and jealous predators forced him off his carefully scouted trails. Sjur Eido caught him with his back against a rift lake and shot him as he tried to cross the lakebed. The wound was not mortal, for the water ruined the terminal ballistics, but she had won the match.

"Your life is at stake," Mara warned her brother. "Lose this final match, and you will—"

"Am I simple?" he snarled at her. The wound pained him terribly, but he would not risk more than a little analgesic. "Leave me my work, Sister, or you leave me nothing at all."

Now they would meet in air superiority fighters over the Andalayas. Charges under their seats would detonate if either of them left the engagement area. Because of the small combat zone, Sjur Eido chose a nimble Ermine tactical fighter and a payload of all-aspect heatseeking missiles.

"Where will we receive these aircraft?" Uldren demanded. "How can I trust the equipment?"

Sjur Eido told him that one of the Gensym Scribes would provide the aircraft and requested weapons from her personal deterrent stockpile. "Very well," Uldren sniffed. "And we will have access to all the weapons these airframes can equip?"

"Of course," Sjur said. "Those we cannot obtain can be replaced by training simulators." She was certain Uldren's wound would cripple him.

"Then I will fly a Dart," Uldren said. The ancient interceptor had awful fire control, dismal maneuverability, and primitive weapons.

"A Dart?" Sjur jeered. "Will you fly with its original weapons, too? You think you can beat me with rockets and a gun?"

"I do," Uldren purred. "You accept those terms?" She did.

The two duelists took to the skies on a bright winter morning. After a fuel check, a telemetry squawk, and a terrain snapshot, they turned in toward each other from a hundred kilometers apart. Sjur Eido descended for the terrain, knowing Uldren's radar could barely separate her from the clutter. Uldren came straight on.

At eighty kilometers of separation, Uldren called across the radio, "Fox three. Kill. Engagement over." Sjur sneered at the bluff and prepared to climb into a snap attack when the KILLED alert flashed on her Ermine's training panel. She had forgotten that the Dart's intercept loadout, when it had last served seventy years ago, included an unguided air-to-air nuclear rocket. Uldren had simulation-killed her and everything within several klicks.

On the tarmac, Sjur Eido threw off her helmet and parachute and knelt before Mara Sov. "My lady," she said, "as I have fought your brother to a tie, I leave my fate in your hands. Be more kind to me than you were to my lady the Diasyrm."

"Rise, Sjur Eido," said Mara. "Let us take the stars together."

<|endoftext|>

Imponent V

The subsonic roar of the solid rocket boosters crosses the threshold from noise into motion. To hear it is to feel it, and to feel it is to remember that you are a sack of fluids and gels much more than you are a solid entity. Membranes and gradients, solutes and films: a body is a mingled thing. Mara thinks of this as she watches the launch vehicle discard its boosters and climb away through the clouds. The Awoken could have been angels. Instead, they are flesh.

"That's that." Queen Nguya Pin rises from her portable throne, unfolding two heads taller than Mara. "Choose your replacement. My work is done, and I will stomach no more."

Mara smiles at her. "Is a Queen's work ever done?"

"Oh, don't insult me," Queen Pin clucks. She brushes windblown pollen from her trousers; today's launches have blasted the spring trees with hot wind. "You used me to do your work, politically and scientifically. You used me to bundle up the Scribes in a neat little scroll for your disposal. I went along with it for the sake of the monarchy, Mara, not because I'm a fool. I don't know what you want or why you're so bent on keeping the Awoken uneasy and dissatisfied. I don't know how you manipulate the acclamations. But when I abdicate, I am going to find Alis Li, wherever she's gone, and ask her all my questions about you. I'm very interested to know the answers."

"You've been a wonderful Queen," Mara says. "No one will ever replace you." Although she is thinking of Devna Tel, who was never one of the Scribes, and whose coronation would make a wonderful rebuke to the Scribes' remaining ambitions.

Sjur Eido meets her by the ship. "We'll need a new Queen," Mara tells her, leaping up the side of the ramp. "Word on the satellite?"

"Still burning for the Lagrange point. What have you done to Nguya?"

"Given her too much perspective, I'm afraid." Just as this observatory satellite should help the Awoken see things from Mara's point of view. She smiles as she helps her bodyguard up the ramp, Sjur indulgently pretending that she needs Mara's hand. "Uldren should be on the ground in Kamarina by now. We'll have a go-ahead on that interferometer buyout when he's done."

There are new stars in the sky. Mara put them there. Huge distributed-array telescopes orbit the Distributary's cool sun; gravity wave sensors and cold primordial neutrino detectors spider the crust. Out of shell corporations and seed investments, she has opened her world as an enormous eye and focused it heavenward. Sjur Eido was her smiling public avatar these past decades, while her brother handled enforcement. The days of covert speed chess in the Queen's court are over: Sjur Eido's open endorsement made Mara the face of Eccaleism and armed Mara with blackmail over all the Gensym Scribes still in power.

Yet she has never been so lonely or so worried for the future. Mother has told her that she, Mara, uses her power over Uldren too freely; that she must learn to stop, or her mother will no longer be her friend.

"Mara?" Sjur says, catching some flickering expression. Knowing Mara well, she immediately changes tack away from comfort. "What do you think we'll find with the satellite?"

"Proof that it's time for us to go," Mara says. "Proof of what I've known since the beginning."

Sjur frowns in thought. She doesn't remember much from before her awakening. Few of the 891 do—but enough to trouble her. "Time for us to go…"

The ship's turbines keen up to speed and then settle into whisper-quiet cruise. Sjur reaches to strap herself in across from Mara. Impulsively, hard-faced, denying she needs what she is asking for, Mara scoots aside to make room on her bench. Sjur raises an eyebrow at her.

"Don't say anything," Mara warns her. "Not a word." And so they pass the flight in silence, but not alone.

<|endoftext|>

Katabasis

Mara looks into the camera and lets the fire in her eyes speak.

They are waiting on her, the Distributary's millions, her Awoken people. She has stoked their curiosity with thirty years of painstaking analysis. When they look up at the night sky, they see the stars of her observatories among the crowded bands of habitats, the spindly orbital factories, towering elevator counterweights, the burning roads of matter streams.

"Let me tell you of our world," she says.

There are the facts of tectonics and atmosphere, of water and climate: the parameters of the sun that feeds them. "No infants died last year. No child went unfed. No youth came of age illiterate, no one suffered illness who might have been treated. We have long surpassed the eutech gathered from Shipspire; yet we have grown carefully and cleanly. We have eluded pollution, eradicated plague, and chosen peace. No maltech weapon has been discharged in centuries. Our atomic weapons were dismantled before they could ever be used. We are our own triumph."

She has elected not to use graphics or theater. She would rather they remember her face.

"You know yourselves," she says. "Let me tell you of your cosmos. We live in a spatially infinite, isotropic universe 12.1 billion years old. Its metallicity is ideal for life and for the spread of technological civilizations. In time, the distance between all points in the universe will contract to zero, and the cosmos will collapse into a singularity, to be reborn in fire. There will be no end to eternity here."

She pauses. She waits. The whole world is out there, begging for the answer to the question.

"Our world is a gift. And we must refuse it."

They are Awoken. They love secrets. They will wait for her to explain.

"We have detected a pattern that was imprinted into our universe by its ancestor: a fingerprint of the initial conditions into which existence was born. From this information, we have confirmed the most primordial of Awoken myths. Our universe is a subset of another. We live within a singularity, a knot in space-time, that orbits a star in another world.

"Conventional relativity would suggest that time outside an event horizon passes quickly compared to a clock within, but our universe has a peculiar relationship with its mother. Thousands of years have passed for us on the Distributary. Outside? Centuries, at most. We are a swift eddy in a slow river.

"These ideas may not surprise you after centuries of theorizing and philosophy. But we have decrypted new data from the cosmic microwave and neutrino background signals. We have discovered voices… the voices of distress calls. They tell a story of bravery, of war, and of desperate loss.

"We were not always immortal. We did not earn this utopia by covenant with any cosmic power, or by attaining an enlightened moral condition. We are refugees. We fled from an apocalyptic clash between our ancestors' civilization and an invading power." She lowers her eyes. "The signals we have retrieved tell us that our ancestors were on the edge of defeat. Perhaps extinction."

"It is time that we accept our debt. The Distributary is a refuge, not a birthright; a base to rebuild our strength, not a garden to tend. I ask you, Awoken, to join me in the hardest and most worthy task a people has ever faced. We must leave our heaven, return to the world of our ancestors, and take up the works they abandoned. If some of them survive, we must offer aid. If they have enemies, we must share our strength. We must go back to the war we fled and face our enemies there."

She lets them dangle a moment before she drives it home. "We have also determined that our birthright, our immortality, is tied to the fundamental traits of this universe. Once we leave, we will begin to age again. In time, we will all die.

"Will you join me, Awoken? Will you answer my call? All I offer you is hardship and death. All I ask is everything you can offer. But you will see an older starlight. You will walk in a deeper dark than this world has ever known."

<|endoftext|>

Nigh I

"You're the devil," Alis Li whispers. "I remember… in one of the old tongues, Mara means death."

An hour before. Mara's ship touches down a polite two kilometers from the Pearl Groves, and she looks out across mazes of channel and tidal pond to the compounds of ancient silver-white stone beyond. Two-ton oysters glitter in the shallows, their shells jeweled with mineral inclusions. Seabirds peck and fret along narrow white beaches. Mara lifts up her black formal skirts and begins her long walk into Alis Li's retreat, the sanctuary of former Queens.

"Mara," Uldren whispers, through her throat mic. "Don't do this. Take Sjur with you, at least."

But she has to do this, or she'll never be able to face herself again.

The sun batters at her. She hides under a parasol, but heat gathers in the folds of her garment, in the soles of her shoes. When she squints against the glare, she thinks she can see the shining grains of her fleet in orbit: the Hulls, built under eutech supervision to the specifications of radically post-conscious AI that will one day fly between worlds. It is far too late to stop the project now. Far, far too late for second thoughts: exactly twelve point one billion years too late, really. For Mara in particular.

Mara kicks the sand and trudges on.

She's in a foul mood when she reaches the old Queen's house, but the sight of Alis Li sitting on the porch with a battered tea service makes her smile. "Thank you for seeing me," Mara says.

"Thank you for coming. I was afraid you'd leave the universe without saying goodbye." Alis pours her a cup of cool blackberry tea. "Have a seat. How's Queen Tel?"

"She has declined to endorse my expedition," Mara admits, tucking her feet beneath her on the wide wooden deck chair. The tea is too sweet, but so blissfully cool. "I'm sure you understand her reasons."

"You mean she's declined to endorse the sudden violent severance of tens of thousands of threads from the tapestry of our society? How surprising." Alis looks Mara over, critically, then sits back to sigh. "A Scribe once told me that the definition of a utopia is a place where every single person's happiness is necessary to everyone else. You're going to make a lot of unhappy people, Mara. You'll make the lives of everyone in the world tangibly worse. Not just those you've lured to certain death, but those who will grieve their departure, and all those who will come to grief for lack of labor and knowledge you took with you."

"My people volunteered."

"Your mother told you," Alis says, "that it is one thing for you to have a particular power over people, but another thing entirely to deny that you are using it."

"You once told me," Mara counters, "that I had to consider the symbol people made out of me, and that if it were good, then I had to be that symbol for them. I had to perform as they required. I have done so. I have been the best thing I can think to be."

"Is this the best thing you could think to be?" Alis says, with very practiced neutrality.

Mara drinks her tea in delicate silence.

The old Queen sets her cup down hard enough to chip. Mara jumps in quiet shock: The tea service is an heirloom from Shipspire. Her face hardens with the power of ancient command. "Mara. I'm at least as clever as you. Do me the credit of acknowledging it."

"I have worked for many hundreds of years to arrange this outcome," Mara says, forthrightly, but without the courage to look Alis Li right in the eyes. "I have nurtured and tended the Eccaleist belief so that there will always be Awoken who feel uncomfortable in paradise. Guilty for the gift of existence in the Distributary. People who'll come with me."

"I know." Alis lays a hand on Mara's, and for a moment the touch almost makes Mara sigh in gratitude: to be seen, to be known, without revulsion. Then Alis' old strength pins her palm to the table.

"The Diasyrm?" Alis hisses. "The Theodisy War? Did you arrange it all?"

<|endoftext|>

Nigh II

"No," Mara says, which is a lie told with truth.

"Do you understand what you've done? Have you reckoned the full cost?"

She has convinced tens of thousands of Awoken to abandon their immortality. She has deprived the Distributary an infinite quantity of joy, companionship, labor, and discovery: all the works that might be accomplished by all the people who will join her in her mission to another world. When she lies awake at night, seized by anxiety, she tries to tally up the loss in her head, but it is too huge, and it becomes a formless thing that stalks her down the pathways of her bones like the creak of a gravity wave.

"Some infinities are larger than others," she tells her old captain. "I believe… we are here for a reason, and this is the way to fulfill that purpose."

"And how much would you sacrifice? Your mother? Your brother? Are the Awoken real to you at all?" Alis leans across her pinned hand, viper-fierce, striking. "Do you think my people were made to die for you?"

"Not for me. For our purpose. For our fate."

"For a home we abandoned. It's in the charter, Mara. The document on Shipspire that," and even Alis Li falls into a hush as she broaches one of the primal mysteries, her memory of creation, "that shaped the… the way I made this universe."

"You were the first," Mara acknowledges. "The first one here laid down the rules."

Alis Li releases her hand and collapses back into her chair. "Why are you here, Mara?"

To tell you the truth at last. "To ask you for that boon you owe me."

"At last." Alis sighs. "Well, I knew the day would come. I think I'll be glad to have this weight off my shoulders. You'll ask me to throw my support behind your mission, won't you? The First Queen says, go with Mara; awaken from this dream and go fight for your home. Is that it?"

"No," Mara says, with her heart in her throat, with trepidation bubbling in her gut. You cannot keep a secret buried like a vintage for so many centuries, and then unbottle it without any ceremony. "The boon I ask is your forgiveness."

Then she explains the truth. She tells Alis Li what she did: about the choice Alis Li would have made, if Mara had not made her own first. It's only an extension of what Alis has already deduced.

When she's finished, her ancient captain's jaw trembles. Her hands shake. A keen slips between her clamped teeth. The oldest woman in the world conjures up all the grief she has ever felt, and still it is not enough to match Mara's crime.

"You're the devil," Alis Li whispers. "I remember… in one of the old tongues, Mara means death. Oh, that's too perfect. That's too much."

She laughs for a while. Mara closes her eyes and waits.

"You realize," Alis Li says, breathing hard, "that this is the worst thing ever done. Worse than stealing a few thousand people from heaven. Worse than that thing we fled, before we were Awoken—"

"Please," Mara begs. "Please don't say that."

Alis Li rises from her chair. "I'll support your fleet," she says. "I'll use every favor and connection I have to get your Hulls completed and through the gateway—and I will do it so that I can hasten your departure from this world. I will do it out of hate for you; I will do it so that every good and great thing we achieve here will ever after be denied to you, you snake. No forgiveness. Do you understand me? It is unforgivable. Go. Go!"

"I'd be very glad if you didn't tell my mother," Mara says.

Alis Li hurls the pitcher of blackberry tea over Mara, turns, and goes inside, leaving her to trudge, wet and sticky but unbowed, back to her ship. She leaves her tea-stained parasol on the deck, but when she remembers it and looks back, it is already gone.

<|endoftext|>

Palingenesis I

Mara thinks of the banyan trees that sprawl across the shallow silty lakes of a world she will never see again. The waveguides in her helmet detect the image and obey the encrypted command scheme she's rooted into every system in her fleet. She speaks into the flight directorate channel. "Flight. Sound off for final hold."

"FIDO. Go flight."

"Guidance. Go flight."

"INCO. Good constellation. Go flight."

"GEOD. Go flight."

"BIO. Go flight."

As her flight controllers confirm the state of their technical domains, Mara looks out into space through the synthetic gaze of her sensorium. The Hulls gleam in the stark blue-white light of the star, each ship a silver seedpod braced by immense structural members and cocooned in reservoirs of spectrally adaptive smart fluid: theoretically enough to survive the horrible forces of transit through a singularity. Mara orders herself not to crane her neck, but she does it anyway and gets a terrible cramp as she searches the sky for the Distributary.

There it is. The world of her rebirth, shining water-blue and beautiful, wrapped like a gyroscope in its twin rings. World of laughing Corsairs, world of breathless forest hunts, world of mountains flickering with pale Cherenkov fire, world of sweet berry-stained lips and mathematical insight pure as a rhodium chime. She will never see it again.

Mara thinks of her mother. She doesn't want to but she does, and the memory blindfolds her and muzzles her and plugs her ears so she can hear nothing but Osana's voice on that final night. They're tipsy together, and the evening has wrapped around to morning. Now they sit side by side, mother and daughter, watching the sun rise over the Chriseiad range from Osana's little ranch house on the tundra.

"I'm not coming with you," Osana says.

Mara has been so afraid of this answer for so long that she actually giggles. This can't be happening, of course. This is a nightmare; one of those stress dreams where your powers of persuasion and manipulation fail. "Sure, Mom," she says, "you've got a ranch to run, after all. More?"

"No thank you." Osana squints into the dawn. Little age creases surround her eyes, illegible encryption, unbroken despite Mara's centuries of effort. The rising light draws a tear. "You'll have to send my goodbyes to Uldren. He's not speaking to me."

"What?" Mara gasps, as if this is the real shock, and not losing her mother forever. "Why?"

"Because I already told him I wasn't coming with you. I'm happy here."

"Mom," Mara says, with rising anger, "I'm happy here too. That's not the point—" A conversation that did not so much end as beat itself to an unsustainable emotional pulp, hours later. No catharsis. No closure.

Back in the present: "Weapons," Uldren calls. "Go flight."

"Go flight," Mara confirms. "The clock is counting. L minus five minutes." Directly off her Hull's bow, a sphere of ultradense mass waits for the moment of implosion and collapse. There will be only moments to transit the wormhole before it evaporates.

"Flight, Sensor," Sjur Eido calls. "I have anomalous starfield occlusions, bearing—"

"Intercept!" Mara shouts. "They're missiles!" It had to happen. Someone had to try to stop the departure, someone good and Paladin-pure who believes they are saving tens of thousands of Awoken from madness and doom.

"Flight, FIDO. Do we abort?"

"Negative!" Mara snaps. "The countdown is go! Weapons, kill the inbounds!"

Sjur Eido grunts in dismay. "They're going to get through," she says. "Five or six, at least."

"Uldren." Mara opens their personal channel with the thought of his face. "Reassign your guns to protect the gateway."

"We'll lose Hulls, Mara—"

"I know. Do it." Mara opens the command interface for the gateway and sends the image of a bloody thorn. The countdown skips instantly to zero. "All ships, we are aborting directly to launch. Brace for acceleration!"

She issues the emergency launch order.

The Hull screams with thrust. Mara's suit floods with cushioning gel. She thinks of her mother's face, trying to fix it perfectly in her mind, and her sensorium tries, vainly, to open a channel to Osana. As the Hull plunges into the singularity, the last thing Mara sees is the mournful error message: No connection. No connection. No connection. Cannot connect to Osana.

<|endoftext|>

Palingenesis II

Here in this time without time, pocketed by the ever-scattering cosm, touched as an assassin touches the gun in the secret fold. There is an eon within and I am going without. This is where we belong, interstitial, in that space between. This is where truth collapses supercritical.

There is a war, and its name is existence. There are two ways to fight—one is the sword, and one is the bomb.

By the sword, I mean the way to fight that is tempered and solid. The way that is made from old things and that triumphs by the reduction to simplicity. This way is known to those who study the cosmos. Take any part of it at any time, and you will see an edge and say, "This is a weapon."

By the bomb, I mean that way of being that is complex and schematic and that must attain a criticality to attack. The way that is made from new things and that triumphs by the arrangement of intricacy. This way is known to those who study themselves. Take any component of the bomb in isolation, and you will say, "What is this? I cannot understand its purpose." Yet in it is the possibility of a fire.

Numberless are the spaces that surround the universe. Subordinate and superordinate are their relationships to the intrinsic world-that-is-only-itself. We pass now through analogy space that will reify what was once subject into object. That power I held, which was agonist to a mother's rapprochement, will be realized and reified.

First is the awareness of my vector, which all who follow me held in their hearts.

Second is the desire to hear my speech, which all who follow me curled in their ears.

Third is the existence-at-the-fault, which is the inner tension that all who follow me still sense.

We are risen from man and fallen from heaven. We are made again in the fall. What was once us will not ever again be us. I am the uncrowned ever-Queen and my only diadem will be the event horizon of the universe, which is my dominion. By falling, I will rise.

There are an uncountable number of ways to be between zero and two.

<|endoftext|>

Palingenesis III

The first hulk they colonized was a one-kilometer habitat tender, reactors still burning, gravity still steady at three-quarters of Earth's. Driven by an AI long ago reduced to basic subroutines, the tender had completed its final mission to wrangle an Oort-cloud comet down into the asteroid belt. When no orders came for the comet's disposition, it had set about gardening. The comet's surface was domed and soiled, and tethered mirrors kept taut by photon pressure focused starlight into a silvery radiance, which fed the oxygen forest well enough. It would have been a marvel of greenery and ancient ice, but the surface had caught fire recently. Oxygen-fueled flame killed nearly everything except insects and rats. But Mara judged it would be a good fixer-upper, the rats the first intelligent life they had met since their return, the insects edible.

The Hulls had not survived the unpocketing as well as their passengers. The microsingularity wormhole, propped open by a precipitous spike of dark energy, pulled alloy and ceramic armor like taffy. Missiles mauled five of the Hulls. Worst of all, the passage through the nightmare limen between worlds had devastated onboard AI and logic systems.

It was time to abandon their cocoons. Uldren's survey located a reef of derelict spacecraft, apparently convoyed together for mutual aid in the Asteroid Belt. The Gensym Scribes who'd joined Mara on her journey were even now giddily cataloguing cultural markers and ancient records.

"We'll salvage the Hulls," Mara told Sjur Eido. "Pull out the raw materials and the systems we can still use, and bring the biosystems of these hulks back online. Once we have reliable gravity, we can start having babies."

"We'll need weapons," Sjur said, cheerfully. "We don't have enough spare chemistry for firearms right now, and the maltech we brought with us would blow right through the hull. Also line-throwing tools and devices for launching satellites off the surfaces of asteroids, hulks, et cetera. You know what I'm thinking?"

"I cannot say I can imagine," Mara said, sarcastically. She imagined the sight of Sjur Eido stringing her woman-tall bow and passed the thought away like a card trick: Dwelling on such pleasantries would not do. "Will it involve archery?"

"Big old compound bows with all sorts of tactical knickknacks." Sjur paced in delighted thought. "I'll be the first woman in the universe to place a comsat in heliocentric orbit with a longbow."

"You're absurd," Mara said, and at Sjur's uninhibited grin of delight, at the thought of exploring and rebuilding this entire reef with her, even at the terrible flinch-thrill idea of sending Sjur into violence and danger, Mara felt a tingle of worrisome warmth and gladness.

"So," Sjur said, lunging into that moment of weakness to get what she wanted. "When will you tell everyone what's happened to Earth?"

At first they had thought Earth a ruin world, but there were signs otherwise. At least it had not turned into a machine-gnawed corpse like Mercury. "When Uldren's back from deploying his drones." She narrowed her eyes. "Sjur, can you hear what I'm thinking?"

"What, as in telepathically?" The Queen's bodyguard closed her eyes. "Everyone's been feeling spooky, but I'm not sure that extends to transmitting—Mara! Good grief!"

<|endoftext|>

Revanche I

Uldren returned to the Reef during the Long Unquiet Night, when the Awoken people huddled in their beds and hammocks, gathered in ice caves and half-lit habitat cylinders, haunted by visions and portents. Faces appeared to them in the sublimating swirl of cometary ice: images and portraits became impossible to distinguish from their real counterparts. All statues were shrouded, lest they appear to passers-by as corpses.

Something had changed in them after their return to the outer cosmos. A live-wire hum passed through the tendons in their hands, their jaws popped when they swallowed, and flashes of light like the impact of cosmic rays obscured their vision. It felt to Mara as if they had lowered their feet into an ocean of charge and raised their hand to some invisible cable overhead: as if they were now again in contact with immense and opposing forces that had left an ancient mark.

"It feels like I've got scurvy," Sjur Eido snarled, having never had scurvy in her life. "As if all these old wounds in my soul are opening up again."

"People keep sending me notes," Mara said. Her sensorium had died in the transit, so the notes came to her through whispers and scraps of precious paper. "They say… I saw your face in my dream. I saw your eyes. I heard your voice."

"So it's not just me."

Uldren was the second person to bring her revelations on that day. First was Kelda Wadj, the Allteacher, one of Mara's most joyful recruits to the expedition: She was a master of pedagogy, able to mold any mind into a shape ready to learn, able to melt any fact into a fluid that could be poured. "I'm in from the Gensym labs," she said, "and they've learned something wonderful. We're all a bit magic now."

"Tell me more." Mara poured her a snifter of icy cometary water. "What does magic mean?"

"Some sort of weak acausality." Kelda lowered her flowerbulb build into a hammock of tangled plastic. "They've been firing encoded neutrino beams through volunteers, and it looks as if the resulting patterns of scatter depend on the cognitive and emotional state of the target. It's a very reliable detection, at least four sigma, but the effect size is terribly small."

Mara digested this with a shot of ancient ice, slushy against her tongue. "Acausality. You mean that whatever's happening—whatever influence we have on, say, neutrino beams—it's not accounted for by physics?"

"Not by any physics we know. At face, it seems to violate some conservation laws, which would make Emmy Noether's head spin." Kelda remembers the names of her ancient physicist heroes even when she cannot tell which way is sunward.

"Secret physics." Mara thought of the Traveler and its works. "We've all felt it, haven't we? We know we're…" How to say "trapped in the clinch between light and dark," she wondered, without quite so much portent? "We're in contact with certain numinous elements."

Kelda held out her cup for more water. "The question is, your Majesty—"

"Don't call me that. We're operating on a direct democracy here."

Kelda rolled her eyes. "The question is, do we continue to think of this as science? Do we teach it as physics? Causal closure says that everything that happens in a material system has a material cause. However, if symbolic structures in the mind are triggering material effect… shouldn't we call that what it is?"

"Death had no dominion," Mara whispered.

"Pardon?"

"We're in Death's dominion now. We're all dying again. We were immortal in the Distributary, weren't we? Some part of us was… attuned to the universe. And now that we're no longer receiving the Distributary's signal, we're attuned to something new."

That was when the hatch slammed open and Uldren stumbled in, grinning ferociously, clutching a scummy fistful of cytogel to a slash across his neck.

"Aliens!" he rasped. "I found aliens, and one of them cut my throat!"

<|endoftext|>

Revanche II

Mara calls a caucus of elected representatives in the Sacred Fire, one of the largest hulks in the reef of derelicts. The Fire was built to support habitat construction on 4 Vesta, where Mara hopes to one day anchor the entire flotilla and set down roots—but the hopeful, fearful faces before her make Mara afraid that it'll never happen. What if everyone runs off at the first hint of home? Having come so far, across worlds and eons, to see Earth again—how can she ask them to hold back now?

"We've found Humanity," she tells them. "We've found our ancestors."

The cheer of triumph and wonder thrills her to the marrow. Most of these Awoken are Distributary-born, raised on myths of Humanity and the Traveler. She has just opened the pages of their storybooks and conjured them to life.

"What remains of the Human species lives in a single settlement." She nods to Uldren, who snaps his fingers for footage. His ship's holographic perspective plunges through fluffy strata of clouds and mist, out into clear air. A lucid vista, a perfect instant: the white mountains, the city, and the enormous shattered sphere that hangs above it.

"Freeze," Uldren commands. "That is the Traveler."

As the crowd murmurs and thrills, Mara feels herself bridle. She doesn't like that thread of reverence. She doesn't like the Traveler looming there, almost but not quite completely dormant (like a dying heart ripped from its body and thrown into warm water, it ebbs and flutters if you look at it with the right sensors). If the Traveler had the power to protect anyone, wouldn't it protect more than one huddled settlement?

Esila, daughter of Sila, leaps up from the crowd, too small to make it on her own, but buoyed up by enthusiastic neighbors. "What are we waiting for?" she calls. "That's everything we came to find! They need us, and that's where we belong!"

Uldren and Mara trade glances. Uldren snaps his fingers, and the recording resumes.

Something moves in the treetops. The canopy roils and parts. A red-brown aircraft shaped like a fat, wingless, furiously angry dragonfly bursts from cover and climbs to intercept. Uldren's head-cued camera tracks the target, and Mara imagines his narrow grin as he waits for the other guy to make a move.

The dragonfly ship drops a brace of little needles, and they erupt into dirty orange flame and come arrowing after Uldren. Everyone in the caucus gets an earful of his grunts as he whips through a high-G turn and climbs away.

"Those are Fallen," Uldren says. "They're a species of interstellar scavengers and subsistence pirates. They've been here for a long time, and they've sacked most of the large settlements that survived the original fall of Humanity. There may be more Fallen than there are Humans left on Earth." He lifts his chin to bare the pale scar across his throat. "I landed and went looking for prisoners. I was ready when he pulled two knives on me, but it turned out he had an extra set of arms."

Nervous laughter.

"Worse," Mara adds, beckoning for panes of deep-space passive sensor data, "they're all over the solar system. We've detected flotillas of their interstellar ships around Jupiter and Venus. They don't go near Mars, but only because it's under occupation by another alien species. Mercury is—well, you can see for yourself." Gasps of horror at the clockwork cinder, all that remains of the legendary garden world. "We believe this may be the work of the Vex, a machine species listed in Shipspire's threat index."

Esila, famed historian, puts voice to the plea in the crowd. "So they need our help, don't they? We have to go to them! Our ships, our technology—we could make all the difference."

"No." Mara collapses the projected images between her hands. She stayed up late wrestling with this dilemma, which kept her from wrestling with Sjur. It was a choice she had to make alone. "We can't reveal our existence, lest the Fallen track us down. We need more information. Our focus must remain on securing this derelict reef, bootstrapping industry and a population, and scouting out the solar system."

"Mara, with all my respect, all my genuine gratitude for bringing us here," Esila sighs, "who died and made you Queen?"

Mara says nothing. But she thinks: Everyone, Esila. All of us died and made me Queen.

<|endoftext|>

Revanche III

"It's bad," Sjur Eido says, confirming what Mara already knows, but nonetheless performing the valuable service of mopping away all the blood and tears and allowing Mara to glimpse the actual shape of the wound that divides her people. Not a literal wound (though she is, right now, tending to Uldren's scar, tweezing tiny fragments of Fallen metal out for analysis), but the rift in her Reef, the schism now re-schismatic, as if the quake that split the Distributary Awoken from Mara's people is now firing off aftershocks.

She should've known this would happen. She shouldn't have told them so much about Earth. "How bad?"

Sjur pokes Uldren in the hard gut, where a passing line of molten metal left a red burn. He's under anesthesia, but he snarls at her anyway. "As of the last caucus, I'd say thirty percent of the expedition wants to head for Earth. If you ask the 891," though there aren't 891 of them anymore, "it's more like eighty percent."

Mara swears and pulls a bloody line of solidified slag from her brother. "Unacceptable. We can't lose their skills." Or their genes: The Awoken have yet to adapt to the attrition of this harsh spaceborne world, and tentative mothers are still in the early stages of designing their babies. It's vital to maintain a diverse gene pool. "And the Fallen will vector them back to us."

"I know," Sjur says, heavily. "That's when I'm going to die."

The most horrible thing about the words is that they slap down on Mara's consciousness like face-up cards, like truth revealed. "Unacceptable!" she barks, and then both she and Sjur begin laughing, and then, at last, Mara shakes her head and growls. "You can't know that, Sjur. No one can know that."

"I do. I don't know how, but I do. I know it's going to be something I choose to do, and it's going to be incontrovertibly heroic. Which is enough for me."

"But if that's true—" Mara proposes, flinching away from the personal conversation they really ought to have, and all its attendant rawness, "—if you die when Fallen attack us, it means I won't stop these people from fleeing to Earth, and the Fallen are going to find us, and we're doomed." She is already building intricate models of how the universe might accommodate fate or doom and how she might go about destroying those things.

"Could be, I suppose." Sjur pulls a parchment-thin rag of dead flesh off Uldren's wound. "Look. I'm the Queen's bodyguard. I always expected I'd die violently."

"I'm not the Queen."

"Maybe that's your problem." She flicks Uldren in the chest, leaving a purple bruise, fading. "What is with you two, anyway? You never talk about him. You never seem to think about him at all. But he's dashing himself to pieces for you. How do live as his favorite and only sister for so many centuries… and hardly even smile at him?"

Secrets, Mara thinks. You've got to have secrets from each other so there's room for him to fill in the gaps with his own happy illusions. Two ships joined together rigidly will tear each other apart if they try to move. But a loose tether leaves room to maneuver—and can be more quickly disengaged, if necessary.

That makes her think of Sjur's prophecy again. She sets the shrapnel down in the dissection dish, very gently. "You won't die. I won't allow it."

<|endoftext|>

Revanche IV

Of all the disasters that might happen in space, riot is the worst. Breaches can be contained, fires can be starved, plague can be quarantined, radiation shielded, heat vented—but a riot has a will of its own: a chaotic ingenuity that corrodes any countermeasure.

Mara crawls through compartments choked with vaporized coolant. She keeps low and clutches the breather to her face. All she can think of is Kelda Wadj's last message and the data attached. "Mara. The paracausal effects are strongest around you. Whatever's happened to us, you are the locus. I cannot overstate how subtle and how important this discovery might be. Mara, when we use radioactive decay as a trigger for simulated bombs—bombs that could harm Awoken—the trigger atoms are a thousandfold less likely to decay near you. People are literally safer when you are around."

She has to get into the riot. She has to protect her people.

A horrible groan vibrates through the habitat structure, and then, with an apocalyptic shudder, something tears off the Reef. A ship. A ship is leaving. Mara has failed.

Mara drops onto her belly and pants into the mask. Then, cringing in anticipation of migraine, she activates the augment, the jury-rigged machine her eutechs produced for exactly this purpose by extracting Mara's ruined Distributary implants and reworking them. She's going to fire a command override to shut down that ship's systems—

—but then she realizes it's a salvaged Human vessel, deaf to her commands.

She gasps in frustration, sucking down cold bottled air. "Sjur."

"I'm here," her radio whispers. "Pinned down in the dockmaster's office. I shot a few in the shoulders, and they seem to have gotten the idea."

"Let them go. If one ship's away, there's no sense holding back the rest. Our position is compromised."

"Understood."

"Broadcast to everyone. I'm going to allow anyone who wants to leave the Reef to go. This is their one and only chance." She rolls onto her back and stares up into the swirling vortices of coolant, seeing faces, futures, the lives she has just lost, the lives she might yet lose. She brought her people here to die in the sense that she brought them into mortality—but she never wanted it to happen quickly.

"They know, your Majesty," Sjur says. "They already know."

"What?"

"You told us. We heard your voice." Awe like gratitude in Sjur Eido's voice. "Mara, I heard you. You spoke to me."

<|endoftext|>

Revanche V

Thus the riven Awoken were riven again, into Reefborn and Earthborn. Those who left went to scour the ruins for lost history and give some succor to their Human cousins who still clung to a hostile world. The Awoken came unto these Humans like nephilim, armed with lost weapons, forgotten industry and medicine. They were like omens of hope, for they were often taken to be starborn colonists returned to the hearth, which was not, after all, so far from truth. All who looked on them saw that the night sky contained more than lurking doom. They bred true with each other and sometimes hybridized with Humans, and in the course of centuries, many forgot the Distributary and even the Reef. However, there was always in their souls an itch, a vector pointing to a distant place in the Asteroid Belt, where their Queen still dwelt.

"They've made a difference already," Sjur told Mara not long after the first Awoken made planetfall on Earth. "They'll save so many lives just with the provision of medicine, pure water, and construction supplies that even if they all died by year's end, they would each yield ten or twenty Humans."

"I know," Mara said, with bitter pride. "Let the people remember them as saints and paladins, and tell no one how many more they might've saved if they had only kept the faith." For she knew the precious value of each Awoken life: She knew how many she would have to spend and mourned each soul wasted on a lesser purpose.

On the day the Fallen struck, Mara was proclaimed Queen. It happened swiftly, though after no little debate among the people, for everyone was afraid of a monarch who could speak to their thoughts. Yet they feared more to deny her power and sovereignty, for they had come between worlds in her name. To refuse her would be to refuse their choice.

"Awoken," she told them, "for the first time in my life, I hesitated to reach for power, and now one in three of you are gone. I cannot deny what the cosmos has made of me any longer. I am your one and rightful Queen."

She knew she had been a fool to pretend to be a peer to the others. What was true of her brother was true of all Awoken. They needed secrets to marvel at, secrets that rhymed with the deep enigma of their souls. They could not follow what they fully understood.

There would be a formal coronation later, in a place not yet built. Out of respect for that unhappened coronation, Mara did not at first wear a crown; and later she claimed as her diadem the ring of event horizon that surrounds the observable universe.

"My Techeuns," she said, gathering Kelda Wadj and the other eutechs who'd remained, "will be given absolute authority to explore our new power, the Traveler's relics, and all associated domains. We are no longer in the realm of pure science. We require an order of mysteries and witches to tend to them."

Not an hour later, a Fallen Ketch threw off its stealth and began a deceleration burn toward 4 Vesta. The four-armed predators had traced one of the Earthward ships back through all its erratic course changes and to the Reef. They came in search of the source of these blue ape-kin.

A salvo of coherent-matter guns gutted the Ketch: blink-quick death for the mighty ship, ancient fury compressing matter into a relativistic pinhead. It was a waste of weapons that couldn't be recharged or reloaded, however, and the Baron in command had already scattered his skiffs like camouflaged seeds. The Fallen Raiders came down all over the Reef and cut their way inside. The Awoken, young to mortality, terrified of death, fled in fear.

Mara, Uldren, and Sjur Eido rallied as many as they could. Sjur fought in a powered combat shell, but Mara needed to be seen vulnerable, silver-haired and narrow-eyed, hurling herself at the enemy. She fought with pistol and dagger, and her brother moved like a wraith at her flank. Her people were ashamed of their timidity. No more were the Fallen scuttling alien predators: Now they were an indignity, an offense to regal privilege to be met with a snarl and a rifle shot. The Awoken saw their desperation: how the stump-limbed Dregs stumbled forward emaciated, how the Vandals cringed from battle as they peeled off wall panels, desperate for salvage to please their Captains.

Armored Sjur Eido met the Fallen Baron in zero-gravity combat above his spider tank and shot him dead, one adamant shaft through plate and throat. Ether hissed into vacuum. Sjur threw herself upon the spider tank that clung to the Sacred Fire's hull. Laughing in joy, she cut into the tank's barrel and threw a charge inside, knowing its next vengeful shot would be meant for the Sacred Fire's main habitat drum—and that she would die in the catastrophic misfire.

The tank fired. The charge detonated. Sjur Eido was thrown clear, utterly unharmed.

"That was where I should have died," she said, in wonder—and in her mind was the smiling face of her Queen.

<|endoftext|>

Telic I

Mara made one more attempt, and only one, to call her scattered people home. She had hoped the assault would convince them they had a responsibility to the Reef, to come home and repair the damage they had caused. It went poorly, however, for though her tech witches were able to amplify her bond to her people through the augments Kelda had developed, she was only one voice in a maelstrom. Her Awoken had sensitive antennae, in the metaphysical sense, and could not hear her plea through the clamor. Also, the communications engineer kept forgetting to call Mara "Majesty" or "Queen."

"Good news," Uldren told her with the grim delight he always showed after a debacle he had survived. "Illyn and I went through the Fallen communications logs. Their Baron never transmitted our position to his Kell. He wanted the prize to himself. We remain secure."

"The Baron might have planted a time-delayed beacon," Mara warned him. "Never underestimate these beings. They've lived in the void longer than us."

"I already admire them," Uldren confessed. "They've lost so much. Some of them even ritually dismember themselves, Mara, to prove they have the strength to grow back the missing limbs. I tell you that even if we are doomed to dwindle and go extinct, those Fallen may outlive us."

Mara made a dry note in her log that her brother had at last discovered his true people.

For her part, Sjur Eido wandered about in a daze, filled with joy to be alive and grief that she no longer knew the day when she would die. "In you, all things are possible," she told Mara. "I live because of you." When Mara saw her string her mighty bow, the limbs coiled behind her leg and around her opposite arm, she was glad beyond telling that Sjur had survived.

In time, Mara appointed Paladins to oversee her new military, as Alis Li had done during the Theodicy War. She created talented starfarers as Corsairs, to scour the asteroid belt in utmost secrecy and to establish routes and caches that would support the covert motion of Awoken ships.

Most of all, she charged her brother with the mission that occupied her thoughts. "Brother," she said, "never again can I allow my people to be divided. We must offer them more than shielding ice and cold habitat cylinders and the warrens of Vesta. We must make a culture, a thread that binds us all in pride and wonder at the mystery of ourselves. Nowhere does culture flourish better than in a city."

"Gather in one place," Uldren warned her, "and you make yourself a target."

Mara had considered this, and found an answer. "Go forth and find me a power unknown to all the other powers of this world. Return it to me, and I shall make of it the cornerstone of my new city, where the Awoken shall dream of all they have been and all that is yet to come."

So Uldren went out voyaging among the worlds, swift as a blueshift ghost. In time, he returned to the Reef with a creature not larger than his hand, saying, "Behold, Sister, the lie that makes itself true. This is an Ahamkara."

<|endoftext|>

Telic II

It was Mara alone who established a covenant with that young Ahamkara, which chose the use-name Riven, in honor of its host. It was Mara alone whose singular will and unity of purpose saved the Awoken from that which we now name the Anthem Anatheme. For there was in Mara very little division between Reality-As-Is and Reality-As-Desired; she was confident in her centuries of purpose and patient with the winding way by which the river of methods reaches the objective ocean. Blessed are those who in their absolute selfhood become selfless. Unappetizing are those who in their truest self-knowledge exclude the possibility of self-deceit.

"Mara," said Uldren Queensbrother, "why do you forbid me to speak to the Ahamkara?"

"This secret is mine alone," said Mara Queen. She knew that her brother had only widened the gap between He-As-Was (which is called NUME) and He-As-He-Would-Be (which is named CAUST). "Begone to the outer world, where I require thee."

This was when Sjur Eido, having spoken to Kelda Wadj and to Esila, at last came before her Queen. Kneeling, she said, "Your Majesty, Kelda Wadj says you are a god, for there is no difference between your desire and reality. Yet I know that you desire things before they ever become real. Esila says that you are keeping a secret from your brother that he must never know. I think the secret is thus: You are now a god because one day you will become a god, and a god is not temporal. Your brother is not a god because he will never become a god. Shall I worship you?"

"Sjur," Mara said, falling to her knees, clutching her beloved's face between shaking hands, "Sjur, on the day you worship me, you cannot love me anymore, for to worship is to yield all power, and I cannot love what has no power over me."

At this, the Ahamkara coiled around her neck, yawned, and showed its fangs: for there was a crevice between What Was and What Was Wanted.

"I see," Sjur Eido said. "Then to me you are not yet a god."

Although in time the knowledge of what Mara would become pushed them apart, it was a kind and happy push, as a friend might urge a beloved companion onward to a distant opportunity. And their days together were spent gladly.

<|endoftext|>

Tyrannocide I

Mara's death began in this mark:

X

Later would come Eris Morn, Osiris, Toland, and all the other accessories of the majestic suicide. Later would come the Reef's tentative entanglements with Vex and Cabal, Fallen and Hive, and the fateful decision to intervene when the House of Wolves turned Earthward to conquer the Last Human City. Later, there would be stories here untold, the Ahamkara and the subcreation of the Dreaming City, the shatterstone fury of the Reef Wars, brother Uldren's journeys into that fell garden, and great sweeping plots whose beginnings and consequences have been entirely expunged for the sake of elegance—or, as of the root81, redacted for the sake of secrets yet untold.

Here is where the beginning began, at that moment when Mara bolted awake from the dream. Her circle of Techeuns lay with her in the misty wintercold chamber, and they came back groggily, their augments stuttering with resync.

She had dreamt a thought of absolute simplicity and perfection, and the thought had become a tooth and bitten her. It had left a wound shaped like

X

Mara seized a pane of crystal paper, flashed it rigid and receptive with a touch, and wrote.

I DREAMT OF SWORD AND BOMB. I dreamt of the self-honing blade that has cut itself so fine, it pierces the world and thus becomes the world. It is self-honing because it constantly whets itself against itself. I dreamt of Death bearing this blade, or of something so closely allied with Death as to be its synonym, so that to separate them would require a knife sharper than sharpness. Death raised up that blade and said "I cut all and all I cut. Aiat."

Then Death cut the bomb, and the bomb was broken and could not fire. I was in the bomb. I knew that Death was the cut-verb, and that its only verb was to cut.

SHAPES AND GLIDERS. I dreamt of existence as a game of cellular automata. In this metaphor, there were only two things: shapes in the game world and the rules of the game world. The rules were the rules of Life and Death. I understood that the sword was the desire to escape existence as a shape in the game and to become the rule that made the shapes. This rule said only "live" or "die"—it had no other outputs. It could not keep secrets. Against it was the desire to become a shape so complex that it could within itself play other games.

WHAT WILL SOON BE. I dreamt that the Sword that was Death and Rule sought out complexity and cut it to reveal the simplicity within. I knew that soon we would be cut for we were complex and full of secrets. I knew that it was coming. I knew that the stroke would fall and that I had to stop it.

HOW CAN A BOMB MAKE USE OF A SWORD?

HOW CAN THE RULE THAT SEPARATES LIFE FROM DEATH BE KILLED?

"I must go to the Dreaming City and use the oracle engine," Mara told her Techeuns. "Prepare my ship."

<|endoftext|>

Tyrannocide II

Ten times and once more Mara asked the Oracle Engine to show her the sword that was death and the way it would appear. Ten times and once more the Oracle Engine showed Mara an image of her family.

First it showed her Sjur Eido, laughing and bright with strength, who would recede and later return.

Then it showed her Uldren, her brother, who explored the ruins of the fallen worlds and sought out challenges to test himself.

Then it showed Mara her own face and lingered on the secret brightness of her eyes.

Last of all, leaving Mara imperious with disdain toward her own feelings, curtly aloof toward all who asked her what troubled her, it showed her Osana, who had remained behind.

Mara dwelt on this puzzle. A mother who had remained behind; a sister with secrets; a brother who hunted and explored; a woman who was plain and fierce. She understood then that the answer to her question lay within herself and that to defeat what was coming, she would need a perfect understanding of herself. Isolation would be her watchword, for an isolated system is easiest of all to understand.

First of all, Mara went into the gardens and planted a flower for her mother, who she thought must still live: though she might by now have forgotten her first daughter and her first son.

"Mother," she said, "I asked to be your sister rather than your daughter, and so I denied you the chance to tell me your secret, the mothertruth that is mapped in the negative space defined by the lies mothers tell their daughters. Well, here are my secrets. I love you. I have always loved you. Without you, I could never have been anything at all."

Then she went to speak to her brother—but Uldren was away on Mars, and she found only his empty chambers, the half-sharpened knives and racks of pistols. She knelt in grief and touched her hand to the floor where his pacing boots had scuffed the asteroid stone smooth. This was the shape of their siblinghood now. The pursuit of absences.

Last of all Mara went to Sjur Eido. Sjur was making a list of incredibly stupid and fatal tasks to post on a Guardian bounty board. "I want to tell you the truth," Mara said. "Ask me a question."

"If you take any positive integer and halve it if it's even, but triple it and add one if it's odd, and you repeat this process forever, will you always, eventually, reach one?" Sjur Eido demanded.

"Sjur, my faithful Wrath," Mara said, "please take my openness seriously. Though I'm sure Illyn could answer your math problem."

"Okay." Sjur looked at her curiously. "Then here's my question. What's gotten into you? Why are you acting like this?"

"Can we walk?" Mara asked her.

<|endoftext|>

Tyrannocide III

Mara and Sjur Eido go out into space and kick off the hull, wearing Corsair skin-pressure suits and slim tethers. The stars circle them like hard-focus candles, like the diadems of a trillion dancers. Sjur Eido pulls herself close and touches helmets with Mara. "We're alone. What's happened, Mara? You've always been, ah…"

"Private?" Mara suggests.

"Mysterious and reclusive, I was going to say."

"A sword can be part of a bomb if the swordstrike is the detonation mechanism," Mara says. "It's impossible for a cellular automata game to change its own rules, but it is possible to create subgames with their own rules, and for those subgames to yield advantage in the master game."

"That's cool," Sjur says. "You know, when you talk like that, what you're actually saying is, 'I don't want anyone to understand me, but I want them to understand they don't understand me.'"

"Yeah," Mara admits, and then, hoarsely, she makes herself say, "Sjur, I have this secret, this thing I did, and I don't know if anyone can know it without hating me forever."

"I had a secret too," Sjur reminds her. "The thing I did…"

"It's nothing compared to mine. Nothing at all."

"Having had some long experience hating you, and then having given it up, I think it would be hard for me to go back." Sjur's strong hand settles at the small of Mara's back. They twirl on upward, rotating around a point between them, their thousand-kilometer tethers slowly unfurling. "Do you want to tell me?"

"No," Mara says. "But I think I have to."

"Okay. Your Majesty, what did you do that made Alis Li throw blackberry tea in your face?"

"I was first," Mara says. And she explains the missing half, the first half of the sentence:

I made the rules and initial conditions that deceived her into believing she herself had decided

It ends like that, where the rest picks up.

Sjur Eido looks at her in expressionless silence. Sjur Eido's hands stroke the seam between Mara's skinsuit and the glassy petals of her helmet. Long ago, this woman betrayed her oath and went to serve the Diasyrm, a woman who cried out in anguish at the curse of physicality and the possibility of suffering. Long ago, this woman threw away her whole life to punish the highest crime she could imagine: the denial of transcendent divinity to those who might have claimed it.

"You're the devil," Sjur says. "You're the lone power who made death. You allowed the possibility of evil. You might be responsible for more preventable suffering than anything that has ever existed."

Mara cannot shake her head or even nod.

"Well," Sjur says, "if you hadn't, none of us would be here. I guess I don't see what else you could've done, if you cared about those we left behind. If you wanted us to be able to go back and help in the fight." She leans forward and very gently kisses the inside of her helmet, where it meets Mara's: in her mind, in that place that is bound to all other Awoken, Mara feels the touch of gentle lips.

Sjur looks suddenly sly. "You know, Mara, I don't think you could've confessed anything, anything at all, unless it were a way of keeping a deeper secret. What's really going on?"

"There are many ways to godhood," Mara tells her. The belt of Orion glitters on her helmet like a three-star rating left by some Hive entity Sjur once killed. "One way is to kill all that is killable, so all that remains must be immortal. Another is the road I have walked, mostly by accident. One of these ways is closer to the sword, and one is closer to the bomb. If the bomb can defeat the sword by the standard of the sword, then the bomb has claim to primacy."

"Never mind," Sjur sighs. "Seen anything cool on Crow surveillance lately?"

<|endoftext|>

Tyrannocide IV

Later. Much later. It is the night before the day of screams. Mara meditates cross-legged in a cradle of null gravity. Variks has told her more than once how the Fallen speak of the Awoken as sterile, unable to regrow their flesh, cursed to bear their scars forever. Also how they think of the Awoken as self-twinned, coexisting with their own shadows. Didn't ancient Inanna, queen of heaven, descend into the underworld to confront her shadow twin, sister Ereshkigal?

Inanna was judged full of hubris and executed.

You cannot defeat a thing that is synonymous with death except on its own territory. You cannot fear and flee from death. You must face it. Death is a sword, and a sword is like a crossing-point, like a bridge—and a bridge may be walked two ways.

The plan exists in her mind alone, although beloved Eris has by necessity learned most of it. The Techeuns do not know the whole plan, although they will position the Harbingers upon the threshold. Even sweet capable Petra does not know the whole plan.

So many she will leave behind.

Uldren knows nothing of the whole plan. He has kept more and more to himself, building up secrets and schemes—all, Mara knows (and pities), because he needs Mara and thinks he can get her attention by keeping secrets from her.

Secrets are her virtue and the virtue of her nemesis. The being whose existence she deduced from the analogy-of-family the Oracle Engine showed her.

Mara will begin the end of that Queen's brother today. She knows what that means for the fate of her own. An eye for an eye. She must think now of the fate of entire cosmos—and of her tender, half-assembled answer to the cold sword logic of the Hive. She must not grieve. She must not fear.

Was Inanna afraid when she descended? Mara's not going to be outclassed by some ancient fable. After all, Mara's name is death. But there is one thing she admires most about Inanna over all the other myths of katabasis.

Inanna went to conquer.

<|endoftext|>

Tyrannocide V

She closes her eyes. Oryx's throne world smashes through her fleet, the bubble of everted screamspace pulverizing rock, metal, and flesh as mere matter surrenders to the will-made-fact of the Taken King. Somewhere, Uldren roars defiance. This is the moment of absolute sacrifice, the incarnation of Awoken doom: to give up their lives in defense of the world they once abandoned. The sense of their great dying rips at Mara like a sob.

She feels her Techeuns preparing emergency selfgates. Shuro Chi reaches out to her—a wordless, urgent need for Mara to live—and it takes all the cold impassive remove of Mara's millennia to turn that hand away.

The shockwave strikes.

Mara dies.

In one way, she is vaporized with her Ketch, the bonds between the very particles of her body questioned by the harrowing logic of Oryx's weapon and found inessential. The mechanism of devastation is spontaneous fission. The author of the devastation is laughing in joy.

In another way, a more true and symbolic way, she is impaled on Oryx's blade. She has thrown all her might at him, and he has answered. He has snuffed her fledgling divinity and her meager claim to royalty, he has exposed Mara to the raw and caustic hostility of his High War. She has been defeated by the sword logic.

She dances down the blade and steps into his throne world. The Harbingers give her the gate and she takes the step. She is dead, consumed by Oryx: She is dead in his will, his Ascendant Realm. There was no other way inside except this true way.

Inanna at least gave her people some warning; she told her minister to have her worshippers lament, drum, pray, and lacerate their buttocks. Inanna told her minister to beg the gods to save her. Mara has not. Instead, she has enlisted Eris and several million mad dancing Guardians to go knock off the god who killed her. It is, on that level, a very simple bank heist: Get yourself taken into the treasury as treasure, and when the owner dies, break back out with his stuff.

But even Inanna had to send everyone away before she passed through the last door.

Mara thinks of everyone she has ever known, all the people she has lost, back even to Yang Liwei and that ray of Light in deepest Darkness. She is there again, on the tether, falling into the mystery. Her brother is crying out after her, trying to follow, and she cannot look back.

She has been thinking of a logic of her own, of secrets and hidden designs. The universe has not grown simpler in its age. Wherever life can begin, it has begun, and even in some places where sensible folk expect it should not. The great tendency has been toward intricacy, toward sophistication, toward deep thought and richer ways of being. A sword is everywhere edged, but the pieces of a bomb do not look at all like weapons until they are assembled.

Oryx's throne world tries to tear her body and psyche into a quintillion screaming pieces, but Mara has survived the inchoate primordial chaos before space and time. She has retained her selfhood through far worse than this—and she has patience for eons. Eris will succeed. The Guardians will play their part. When the power in this world is free for the taking, Mara will take it, not as the victor taking spoils, but as a scavenger takes a prize component for her masterwork.

When a pawn reaches the far side of the chessboard, it may be promoted to a queen. And what hatches when you promote a queen? What new board does she claim her place on?

Mara knows.

She settles in for the long wait, entirely alone, almost at peace with it.

<|endoftext|>

Regent

"I see. And our Wolfships?"

"All destroyed but the Kaliks-Syn, and she is badly wounded. Burning for Pallas now."

"Galliots?"

"Those that remained at the Outpost are still in good condition for now. And we have some still in reserve at Pallas."

"How many?"

"Ah… twelve."

"And how many shipwrights?"

"I'm afraid I cannot say."

"I see. Divert Hallam to civilian defense. Send Kamala and anyone we can spare for a covert SAR run. Avoid hostile engagements at all costs. If they find survivors, notify me immediately."

"Wilco that. Signing off, Commander."

The comms light goes off and Petra takes a deep breath for calm. She leans forward to flip switches, adjust dials. Her hands are shaking. "Commander." She was never supposed to be Commander. All she'd ever wanted was to serve and protect Mara, and now Mara Sov was—

Mara Sov was…

Mara was alive; she was alive somewhere. She'd promised!

Retaking the yoke of her own Galliot, Petra sets a course for the Tangled Shore. She cycles through comms channels as she flies: The Hive are swarming the Outpost, and the Disciples are demanding escort in their evac. Devi is MIA. Guardian jumpship after Guardian jumpship is throwing itself at that monstrous Hive ship, only to be repelled by some kind of defense field. A hundred Seeders are landing on Ceres. Hallam is evacuating every civilian he can to the shielded inner cities. Two hundred more Seeders on Pallas. Skyburner forces inbound, armed to the teeth. Wolf allies defecting. Devi is found.

Petra cannot turn off the radio. She cannot stop listening; she can scarcely breathe. She wants to reverse course and fly her ship into the eye of that flagship; she wants to wreck herself against its ugly scrimshawed hull and scream so clear and true as she dies that that wretched beast will hear her and know what atrocity he has committed. She wants to believe Mara is alive but how, how, how when she cannot feel her, when she does not know every step of the accursed plan!

She approaches Thieves' Landing from a reckless angle, then cuts fast and low across the lashed-together wreckage of the Shore. The air is thick with dust and debris and shimmering immaterial Harbinger matter; it is impossible to see more than a klick out. She follows her radar.

Unconsciously, she holds her breath.

And then—there it is. The Watchtower.

Petra sighs through clenched teeth.

It's whole. Unharmed.

<|endoftext|>

Illyn

In the bomb-walled passages of the place called Processes and Services, the screams have stopped.

"I've never heard it quiet before," Lissyl whispers. "Are they gone?"

But she knows, as Portia and Nascia know, as Illyn herself knows, that the Taken have not gone. Not very long ago, Processes and Services was the place Illyn and her sisters came to make the Desolates—items of technology imbued with the husk-dry power of Oryx's Taken. Illyn was the first to stand as living conduit; the first of the Techeuns to use that deep interior faultline, that fundamental Awoken schism, as a bridge. She remembers the endless, awful, infinitely malicious screams of the things. But she also remembers the whispers… and if the screams are silent now, the whispers are louder than ever.

"Quickly," Illyn hisses. "Before Petra is informed." Any breach of Processes and Services triggers an alert, and while they were crafty in their intrusion, even minute body heat and motion of the air will be detected. "We must ask our questions and go."

Brave Portia leads them to the cell she selected for their use—a vacuum-gapped sphere of relic iron coated inside and out by signal-deadening spinfoil. It hovers in suspension, a black miniature Traveler, a pearl formed around a hideous interior flaw. Illyn opens a needle-thin access port. The stink of ozone rolls out.

There is a Taken Vandal within, flexing and shuddering through nameless permutations of blissful agony.

"Nascia," she whispers. Quiet, precise Nascia slips a whisker of cable into the port, guiding it through impossible twists and encrypted locks with the caress of her augments' fields.

Illyn rubs her temples. The whispers are loud here. The whispers that haunt the place where their Queen's voice once sounded. Whispers which sound so much like missing Shuro Chi and the others from the Queen's flagship.

They should have selfgated to the Dreaming City if the battle went wrong. They should have come home safe. What if they need help? What if Petra has kept their fate from Illyn? Would she do that, Petra Covensdaughter, raised by the witches? Things have not been easy between the Regent-Commander and the Techeuns…

"Ready." Nascia offers the splayed end of the cable to them. "Be careful, all of you."

Their augments sync in a stutter of light, like a sunbeam passing over a field of diamonds. Inquisitive Lissyl forms the first question. Do you hear us?

The viper-strike rush of the Taken thing's will comes at them. It is powerful, but familiar: Illyn deflects its demand. "I think it hears us," she says, with a grim chuckle. "We know Taken too well, don't we?" There were fears once that the Guardians would be appalled by the Taken-empowered armor. But Petra was right. Guardians will wear anything that gives them power—whether tactical or social.

Together, they unfold the Taken thing's brutally elegant interior geometries, seeking the threads of connection that reach out across space and time. "Shuro?" Illyn whispers. "We have heard you. Do you hear us?"

That is when she makes the fatal mistake. She thinks of the time before Saturn. She thinks of Shuro Chi and Uldren and Mara. She… wants that time back.

She wants.

In the nonspace around them, great jaws snap shut.

"RIVEN!" brave Portia screams. Illyn was prepared for Taken—folded perfect things, elegant and thus manageable—but this absolute appetite, this impossible will…

She speaks the secret word of stasis that will crash their augments and end the communion. She does not know if she is in time. Quiet Nascia is screaming, inquisitive Lissyl is screaming. The screaming has begun again.

<|endoftext|>

Nitrogen

"Lightning!" Koro yells, waking Tellia Ros from an uneasy sleep. "It's lightning! At last! At last!" He has gone out in a cloak and a rebreather to dance in joy.

White light flashes through the film of Koro's plastic hovel. Tellia thinks of arc grenades and the Baron's Scorn cutting through the walls of her lab. She shudders, counts the arrows in her quiver, and tries to go back to sleep.

She can't. She puts on bow and quiver, joins Koro outside. He's sifting the lightning-struck earth, grinning like a fool. A burrowing insect slips between his fingers—he pinches after it, but gets only one slim antenna. "I need nitrogen to grow plants," he explains, pointing up to the sky and the mist of contained air that surrounds this part of the Reef. "When the containment field builds up enough charge, it arcs to the ground, and the lightning bolts split nitrogen in the air, which fertilizes the soil. Isn't that amazing?"

Tellia stares at him. "You can't seriously want to farm here." Home, civilized proper home, is a sealed habitat—a cool clean place full of light.

"Why not? We're a refugee people now, Tellia. You think things are going to get better?" He points to the bright stars of habitats and ships above. "All those—those are targets. We have to learn to live off our land."

"We're a refugee people because things keep killing us!" Tellia leaves angry bootprints in the soil. "You won't have to be out be here long. Petra Venj will lock down the Reef, or the Queen will come back, or… or…"

"You really think she survived?" Koro brushes his hands clean. "My Felda sure didn't, and she was tough. Real tough. It took legions of Guardians to kill Oryx. The Queen, she's… I know she was something special. But she's no Guardian."

"I think I can still feel her," Tellia says, stubbornly. "Sometimes."

"Sometimes. Who knows what can get into our heads these days."

A new star ignites overhead. Koro squints. "Guardian ship," he says. "You can tell by the way they come in, like they just don't have a care."

"Maybe they'll come hunt the Scorn." Maybe one day Tellia will be a scientist again, in a proper lab, with a proper place to sleep. "Like the days after Skolas…"

"I've got other hopes." Koro slaps his thighs, bounds to his feet, and, as if he is a true prophet, heads for his hovel just a moment before his baby bursts out crying. "You hear about that one Fallen on Hygeia? He pays for people willing to maintain a few remote telescopes."

"You work for the Spider?" Tellia cries. "But he's—"

"Willing to pay in hard goods. Willing to help people move. Even willing to provide security." Koro pulls back his hovel's flap. "Want to help me with the kids? Someone's got to explain why they shouldn't be afraid of lightning."

<|endoftext|>

Refusal

Petra has her welcome for Zavala all planned out. He will say something stentorian which, while it is technically a greeting, Petra will also read as reproach, or condescension, or perhaps paternal concern. Petra will smirk at Zavala like she really doesn't care, so that he knows he's nobody, a little guy, a bureaucrat, far beneath her anger. But at this exact moment, a shard of cyanide-laced ice from the far reaches of the Oort cloud will penetrate the Reef's ravaged defenses and smash into Zavala with such velocity that he becomes a thin ooze across the floor, a scum. When Zavala's Ghost begins to rebuild him, Petra will say, smoothly, "No, allow me!" Then she will brandish a mop.

The hatch opens. Cayde-6 backs his way through, talking to Zavala: "Whatever you've seen, whatever you've read, it's worse. These people need our—"

"Cayde." Petra half-consciously adopts Mara's fey remove, her insouciant and remote posture. Her throat jams up, and she actually coughs aloud against the sudden grief. "You brought—"

Zavala grinds his way into the room, an obelisk of City stone extruded across the solar system to invade Petra's space. He very politely answers Cayde before turning to her. "The fact is, Cayde, the Queen did us a favor by leaving the Reef in chaos. As long as the Fallen are here killing each other, we have room to rebuild." Now he nods to Petra. "Regent-Commander. Pleased to see you well."

"Likewise, I'm sure." Petra feels in her heart that the Queen saw the Reef as a protector of Earth and its people, if perhaps not protector of the Traveler. It still kills her to hear Zavala speak openly of the Reef as a distraction. "Cayde had a proposal," she says, "that he wanted us both to hear."

"Yes I did!" Cayde prances between them, like a flare meant to draw off the heat-seeking fury passing between Petra and Zavala. The City's fall drove him deep into his jester persona, devil-may-care and fancy free; he hasn't quite recovered. "It's like this, Petra. We're bringing a lot of Earth's lonely people into the arms of the City. I got to talking to Variks about the situation out here, and I figured hey, maybe it's time we extend that policy to you." He sobers. "I want to invite the Reef Awoken into the City. Abandon this place to Variks, to Dead Orbit, to whoever wants it. It's hell out here, Petra. You won't survive."

Zavala's eyes are locked on Petra. He burns with a magnificent, stentorian power. "Does the Regent-Commander have enough control over the Reef to execute a withdrawal?"

"Despite your best efforts," Petra snaps—and then, suddenly, she cannot stop. She is too furious, too hot with grief. "At least Cayde is honorable enough to acknowledge what you've done to us. Every Fallen House you shatter washes up on our shores! Every Hive god and Cabal tyrant you attract goes through us to get to you! No wonder she couldn't stand the sight of you, Zavala. You've forsaken your people."

She bites back the rest: how she wishes that back in two-thousand-and-whatever, when the Darkness hurled mankind off the height of its Golden Age to plummet sixteen centuries into barbarism, it had done just a slightly better job.

That's not true. That's her broken heart talking. But oh does it talk loud.

"She was a charlatan," Zavala says, quietly. "Fighting a war that existed only in her mind. Dragging you all behind her. Any of you who will admit that are welcome in my City. But I will not take in whatever conspiracies she left unfinished. If you come to us, you come to join the City."

No. No. Stop being the Queen's people? Stop remembering her promise? "You're afraid," Petra tells the Titan of Titans. "That's why she could never trust you. Go back to your Traveler, Zavala. Thank you for your concern, Cayde, but the Reef has its own purposes, and you would mourn your foolishness if we abandoned them."

"Petra—"

"They are the purposes," she snarls, "intended by our Queen."

<|endoftext|>

Fleet

They lock onto his ship so far out that he actually grunts aloud in shock—but they have seen stealth tech in action before, among the Fallen and against Oryx, so he should not be surprised.

The message comes. "State your business, or be fired upon by orders of the Regent-Commander."

Arach Jalaal chuckles at the title; he remembers Petra's time in the Tower, her simmering impatience to be back out in the black sky. She got her wish. Perhaps she regrets it. She was right about one thing, at least… this is where everything that matters happens. If Dead Orbit had ruled the City, there would've been a fleet to meet Ghaul.

"It's Arach Jalaal of Dead Orbit," he says, cheerfully. "I'm here to speak to Regent-Commander Petra Venj. I am not an emissary from the City. I come on my own accord to discuss matters of fleet."

Jalaal has been to the Reef before, but never through proper channels. He's a little surprised when Petra Venj meets him at his transmat zone; he expected an escort to a waiting area, where he'd be given a sense he's not a priority. However, Petra is an operative, not a politician. She can't bear to delay action for the sake of theater. He likes that.

"Arach Jalaal." She shakes his hand firmly. Does he feel a whisper of some faint telekinetic force against his throat? She can do that knife trick… and what else? "Welcome back to your ancestors' home."

"Regent-Commander. How does the role suit you?" A reminder that they are both out of place.

"It's temporary." She beckons him to walk. "You want to discuss ships. We have talented labor, but no safe yards for them to do their work. If you can supply a site—"

He checks her with a slash of his hand, a spacewalker's gesture. "I came for salvage rights."

"Salvage?"

"Around Saturn. I want your permission to go through the debris swarm for materials and spaceframes. The dead will, of course, be returned."

Petra is silent. Arach expects her, being a spacer, to be a pragmatist; to see that the Reef doesn't have the spare capacity to process this salvage and that the inner Solar System needs as many ships as it can raise. There is also the question of Oryx's weapon and whether it can be defeated if the Dreadnaught ever stirs again.

But Petra remains silent.

"The wounds are still too fresh? I apologize. It seems a shame to leave those resources for the Fallen, or to drift into Saturn…"

She speaks. "Earthborn. Did you mourn for her?"

He thinks she will know if he lies. "I respected her, yes, but I despised the way she seemed… entitled… to us all. I never regret choosing the path I did. I was Awoken to continue the search we started long ago. The quest for worlds worthy of our lives."

Petra turns her back and goes.

He stares after her. Only after a long minute does he understand: She cannot say any of the things she wants to say and cannot bring herself to tell the lies she should. So she refuses him. She refuses the choice.

Jalaal pities her a little. She will never be free of her.

<|endoftext|>

Of Earth and the Reef

Dear Master Ives,

I write to you on behalf of the Cryptarchs of Earth in sympathy for all those who died in service to your Queen. We Earthborn feel your loss and hope this tragedy will usher in a new era. We have made great strides in unraveling a richer and deeper history of Earth and its colonies—a history buried below merely ordinary truths. This content is, of course, far too sensitive to publish generally. We long feared that if it were intercepted by her Majesty your Queen, it would be denied or manipulated to serve some need of her own. Some of these discoveries relate to the nature of our "awakening," while others point to the occurrence of journeys like our own… journeys that may have had troubling results. All of this scholarship would benefit from cross-reference and critical comparison with your own collected records. We hope you agree that this knowledge is far more important than any schism that once defined our peoples. We look forward to cooperation between our libraries, correspondence between our scholars, and the beginning of a new intellectual Golden Age, a time of lucidity and truth.

Respectfully,
Master Rahool

---

Dear Master Rahool,

We, the Cryptarchs of the Reef, appreciate your sympathy for the devastation that our people suffered in your defense. We likewise express our sorrow for your recent losses and, of course, apologize for the length of time it has taken us to respond to your requests. We were determined to give our reply the full deliberation it deserved. It is our unanimous consensus that you are vile, sir—that you are a grasping wretch. That you would attempt to use our misfortune to solicit access to our vaults and records (which I assure you are far more extraordinary than whatever half-eaten corruptions you've discovered among your ruins) is quite appalling. We will, however, happily review any data or records you believe would be of interest to our efforts. You'll also be curious to know that reams of new discoveries are being generated daily since your Traveler cast out the last of its Light to refuel your Guardians. Let us hope you are wise enough to understand its message.

With all the respect that is due,
Master Ives

<|endoftext|>

Pilgrimage

Zavala lowers his brow to the Ionian earth. It feels like the respectful thing to do. There's a big coiled ammonite fossil right under the thin topsoil, though, and he knocks his forehead on it. The pain and the blowing sulfur dust make him sneeze.

"Humbly I come," he says, almost laughing, "to speak to thee." Ikora said this was the place. Io. A world still half-born, connected as if by an untorn umbilical to the Traveler. "I wanted to say… thank you."

He finds he's looking up at Jupiter. He's accustomed to seeing the Traveler above the City, so he fastens on the nearest huge floating sphere as a proxy. He forces his eyes down to the soil again. "Thank you for what you did to Ghaul."

Ikora tells him if you listen with the right ears, you can hear the Traveler's last conversation with Io. As if the matter of terraforming an entire moon with Earthlike gravity and a biosphere is only a matter of rhetoric and instruction. Well. Isn't that the challenge, in the end? Not just assembling the power to do something, but convincing people to do it? No, not even that—not convincing or coercing (Traveler knows he is tempted sometimes), but teaching them how to think as you think, how to value what you value, even giving them the ethics required to understand your valuation. So that you can trust them to make the choices you would, even when you're not around to father them.

Zavala wishes he were half as good a teacher as he is a Titan. Then maybe he could allow himself to relax a little and let others take care of things.

Except last time he let his guard down—last time he dared think they were triumphant, with Oryx repelled, SIVA contained, Vex befuddled, Cabal huddled in their bunkers and too stubborn to come out—Ghaul turned up in a storm and nearly destroyed the City, the Traveler, and everything Zavala loves.

"Did I fail you?" he asks the bone-coiled dirt. "Am I… the reason you had to wake up? Because I couldn't stop Ghaul by myself?"

In the giddiness of victory, he declared this their new Golden Age. But now he thinks he may have misunderstood the Traveler's awakening. He has always, he hopes, been a brave man. But he is almost too afraid to ask this next question. "Is this just our next 'age of triumph'? Is something worse on the way?"

The bruise where he head-butted the fossil throbs. History, Zavala once told someone, is a question of armor. How much can you survive and keep on living? More than this, more than what's hit them so far.

But how much more? And if the next escalation is a consequence of the Traveler's awakening, will it be Zavala's fault?

Duty is a puzzle. The harder you work, the more it seems to weigh. That reminds Zavala of Basho, his favorite poet, and of the hot spring Basho once visited to see the Murder Stone, which killed birds and insects that came too near. He has a horrible idea of the Traveler as that stone, surrounded by buzzing flies all shaped like Ghosts…

"You're doing it again," his Ghost warns him. "I know that expression."

"I know," Zavala says. "I just worry."

<|endoftext|>

Flayed

Spider's lair. Petra in her element, light-footed, light of thought. She keeps herself open to the place. Heat of packed bodies and machinery, bite of Ether in the air. Money and the promise of money and the things money can make people do. Knives. Pistols. Danger like static charge.

"He's no good for you," she says, "and he's no good for me. If you turn him over, I'll be happy. You like me happy, don't you, Spider?"

The Spider grumbles. "Very well. You will take him alive? He must have stores of Ether, and no matter what Variks says, that Ether is mine…"

He's agreed. She has what she came for, which is proof that the Spider actually wants this capture to succeed. As Regent, she can never tell when she succeeds. She's constantly reacting, making decisions that will only be clearly assessed by historians. Here, she is the Wrath again. She feels brave.

"We'll deal with the Ether once we have him. Thank you for the information." Petra slides the hood over her head and dismisses herself back into the crowd.

Two Dregs barter salvage with tokens like fingernail-sized knives. Slatted light falls through thick clouds of adulterated Ether to cut hard lines across the torn bannerless fringes some of the Fallen wear. A Cabal deserter, hunched against the wall in a baggy pressure sac, sells the location of Red Legion arms caches for lodes of raw Glimmer. Petra pauses for a moment on the threshold; looks back longingly at the chaos within; wishes that anything would happen to make her stay.

She goes out into the shadows of the surface.

Soon, as clear as the visions that sometimes come to her, she knows there's something moving quick and stealthy up ahead. She keeps her pace steady. Checks her knife and pistol.

"So few of us remain, Petra Venj."

The voice betrays a bearing, and she catches just a glimpse of structure against the background noise: the hood of a cloak, the arch of lips.

"Who's there?" she challenges.

It's a man. His movements are erratic, shrouded in arrhythmic noise that mimics the chaos of nature. He knows how to seem like an accidental thing: a tumbled heap, a brush of wind.

"Petra… if only we could go back to those days before…"

"Uldren?" she gasps. He is here! He has come to take the Regency and execute his sister's will! She'll be free again to act, act without cruel deliberation and agonizing uncertainty, free to meet every challenge instead of making them for herself—

No. This must be an illusion. It's too much of everything she wants. She searches with senses beyond sight for something capable of casting this into her mind. A Psion Flayer? A Hive Wizard?

"She trusted you with all of this, all of us. And you gave it to the 'mercy' of the Light."

She feels the intent to murder, and she knows it is meant for her. She draws and acquires the target faster than a sound can cross from mind to tongue—but her sight picture captures only darkness.

Two slow heartbeats. When no shot or knife comes, she begins to withdraw.

Nothing follows her to her ship.

<|endoftext|>

Gensym Scribe

Asher Mir stands looking at himself in a mirror. He is shirtless. With the hand that still feels, he reaches to the shoulder that doesn't feel. He taps his fingernails against the rigid metal there, then taps his way to his clavicle. The boundary between metal and skin is neither uniform nor tidy: Metal gives way to a sheath of hard, keratinized skin that puckers and blooms and splits like he is a snake sloughing its skin. Keratinized skin gives way to toughened callus, ugly with bruising and overstressed veins.

He spreads his palm against his chest and holds it there, as if covering it up will make it go away. Then, with effort, he drops his hand and forces himself to look for a long time.

What will happen, he wonders, when the machinoforming reaches his lungs? It is already painful to cough.

"You should go to the Reef."

Asher sucks in a breath through his teeth and snatches at his shirt. He struggles to put it on, then whirls around to find Ikora Rey leaning in his doorway. "Unforgivable intrusion," he spits. "Declare yourself plainly when you approach. And schedule your so-called visits in advance. I was not expecting you."

Ikora exchanges a brief glance with Ophiuchus, then goes on, "Tyra believes that Ives or another one of the Reef Cryptarchs might be able to help."

"A fool's errand. The Cryptarchs are preoccupied by idle theory. The answer to my problem lies here, with the Vex."

"If that's so, why didn't you come with me to see Osiris?"

Asher fights his way into his robes, fastening snaps and ties so quickly that he misaligns several. "Because he is a useless, self-obsessed wretch."

Ikora raises an eyebrow and waits. Asher sneers as he smooths both hands across his belly, trying to tidy his silhouette. "I concede your point but I do not have to acknowledge it."

"The Techeuns, then. My Hidden say—"

Asher stiffens. His head snaps up. "Your Hidden!" he barks as hot tears well in his eyes. "Your Hidden know NOTHING about this illness! The Queen's witches, if they still live, know NOTHING about this illness. No one can stop it! I am beginning to believe there is no sense in even trying!"

<|endoftext|>

Exegesis

As I have made it my life's work to seek as much truth as history can offer, I chronicle these dreams in hope that my subjective understanding might provide some path to truth for others:

INFINITE SADNESS: I stand at the bow of a ship, crying as the stars streak the skies. I am trying to chronicle trillions of star systems at once, searching for a single planet. A faceless companion asks why I look so sad, and I show her a photo of a globular mass or a dual-ringed planet, depending on how you hold it. "How much did you pay for that?" she asks. "Everything I have," I respond. Then the stars stop streaking and the ship crumbles apart. We fall into nothing, and I awake.

FISSURING WARMTH: I am running from an encroaching burn of blue light. I jump from rock to rock, as they are the only things with gravity. Every leap is a battle against the cold nothingness of space. I see a sea of people gathered together, and realize that's where I am trying to go. I make one more giant leap, but the blue burn catches my ankles, and I fall. The impact of my plummet shatters the rock in two. Hundreds of these beings fall into the chasm I created behind me. I try to heave each of them back to the surface, and I do until I can't anymore. My elbows won't bend; my arms are too weak to push. The descent gets warmer and warmer until all goes black, and I awake.

SONGS OF ANALYSIS: I am outside my body watching it float from one shapeless void into another. The first void contains a voice humming a tune, yet no presence. As I pass through each, one by one, another voice joins in harmony. I try counting the voices, but I am not sure if I should be adding or subtracting as they fade into one, and in my confusion I lose any memory of numbers at all. I feel a tether pulling me back into being and see myself waving goodbye. A voice burrows into my mind as the serenading songs become discordant, ugly. The voice becomes louder, and I awake.

WASHING SKIN: I have gathered my belongings in a gray porcelain sink. The soap clings to my fingers. As I wash what I possess, my things begin to dissolve. I scrub harder because I know that the washing is a way to remove impurity, and I must be certain that I will not dissolve too. My mother tells me that silver is the element of false-life, blue skin poison. I worry that my fingernails are soft.

MOUNTAIN: I am on the mountain at Felwinter's Peak, except there is an express monorail to my neighborhood grocery in the City, which is all out of what I need. A Guardian brings me a special engram. I refuse to decrypt it. I tell the Guardian it is better this way, unactualized, secret, certainly containing the thing that will be needed when the moment comes.

TYRA: I am someone else. I hope that someday I will meet Tyra Karn.

<|endoftext|>

King's Wrath

Dinna twists the emergency transponder until the circuit closes. And for the second time in her life, she feels the crackle of the beacon as it burns itself out, blasting its life into a single radio howl: PSARA PSARA PSARA

It means that the Queen's throne room is about to fall.

"Done," she tells her second. "Let's not count on reinforcements."

"Not our reinforcements, at least." Pods are still coming in from the prison, crashing all over the Vestian Outpost. "The throne isn't a tactical target. Do you think they'll bypass us?"

"Not a chance," Dinna says, grimly. "Not the littlest chance."

The Queen's Guard has, technically, never been defeated in battle: Pride dismisses the House of Wolves' backstab as an act of treachery, not military might. But once more the Fallen are loose in the Reef… and if there is no treachery involved, Dinna will eat dirt and call it hummus. This reminds her too much of that awful day.

So when the voice comes through the door, she calls, "Hold. Hold."

"Paladin Dinna?" the Prince of the Awoken calls. "You know that's my throne you're guarding, don't you? May I come in?"

"You're not alone," she shouts back.

"I have my retinue with me."

A few of Dinna's people lower their weapons. "Weapons up," she snaps. "We can't trust him to—"

Royal overrides slither through the throne room's networks. The doors open, and a dazzling barrage of flashbangs plays the royal welcome. Dinna stares straight into it, weapon aimed, eyes open, trusting her helmet to buffer her sight—and waiting for the first blue flash of Fallen weapons.

Prince Uldren Sov saunters in like the belle of the ball, his cocked revolver aimed at the ceiling. "At ease," he says, with a little swish of his cloak, and everyone, Dinna included, responds. Just a moment's weakness. Just the subtlest flicker of deference, because he is the Prince and it feels so right to have royalty in this throne room again. Fingers off triggers, weapons skewed a few degrees off target—

The impulse is so strong because it jives with Dinna's discipline, which has already stepped in to crush the immediate instinct to blow Uldren away. Something's wrong. Something's off.

Baseline Humans can react to a visual stimulus in less than two hundred milliseconds. Awoken, less than a hundred. But there is a phenomenon Dinna and every other Royal Guard knows well, a trick of the mind called attentional blink. You are waiting for something to appear: a hostile, a gunshot, a loud noise. When it does appear, your attention blinks. You cannot detect a second event if it comes just after the first.

So it is with the blue flash of Arc-rifle fire behind Uldren's cloak.

It could go differently, still. But there is no one in this room who can easily sight in and fire on their Prince—and he has no such reciprocal inhibition.

<|endoftext|>

Emissary

the clever one sees through our pawn

'I am not your pawn. My will is my own. Though… perhaps not my actions, of late.'

P A W N S H A V E M A N Y U S E S

'More than you know.'

Her plan was multi-armed. Strong.

'You will never see her coming. Mara Sov bows to no one.'

clever or not she will not halt the storm they are coming

'Yes…'

N O T H I N G W I L L C H A N G E T H A T N O W

'Don't be so sure. Those I judge have agency like you will never know.'

Nothing.

'…'

NOTHING.

'…'

no one

'…'

Then why are we afraid? We are Nine.

'Hah. Are you?'

A R E W E

'…'

truth truth count the voices

'One, two, three, four, five. Haha.'

They will see it our way, given time. We are the same.

'No one sees anything your way. You seek to hear us… them… but you don't listen.'

N I N E

'Five.'

Yes.

'…'

i wish to share your confidence

'Oh?'

Have you learned nothing? Even we should not use that word.

'What tipped you off? The paracausal nightmare in the Reef? Or the Hunter with the bleeding eyes?'

E N O U G H

'Even you have tempers.'

the pawn will give us agency in this her goal is our goal we made her thusly

'Yes. And no. You will never understand us.'

Yes. They are coming, and when they arrive, she will do as she always does. Judge.

'In that we agree. I'm judging you, too.'

EVERYTHING DIES. EVEN THE ONES RIDING THE ONCOMING STORM.

'Dogma.'

T H E R E I S A N E N D T O E V E R Y T H I N G

'Dogma.'

The greatest threat to a Guardian is another Guardian.

'Dogma.'

three keys

'Dogma.'

SAFE HARBOR IS VERY FAR AWAY

'Dogma. I'm sick of your dogma. I'll be just a little longer, Namqi.'

<|endoftext|>

Entry 10

Entry 10

I'm a mother to a beautiful daughter. A daughter who talks to people who aren't actually there. Normal kid stuff, sure. Reminds me of my own childhood.

Like when my mother would tell me ghost stories. They fascinated me. Especially the really creepy ones where ghosts would try to communicate with people.

I decided I was going to be the first person to truly make contact with one. Headed to the creepiest part of my house, the basement. I was going to just sit in the dark and wait until something, anything showed up. But, my plan was cut short. Took one hell of a tumble down the basement stairs. Many bruises and a broken arm later, my mother reminded me that ghosts weren't real. That I should stick to what I could see in front of me.

But sometimes you just want to believe in a thing, you know? Because what if it is real? What if this big beautiful universe we barely know is much stranger and more complicated than any of us realize?

Shouldn't we want to look beyond what we can see with our eyes?

I mean—a gigantic ominous ball floats in the sky over other planets and terraforms them. Stranger things haven't happened. If something like the Traveler exists, doesn't it stand to reason that there's more out there we don't know?

So many people treat the Traveler like it's not this completely alien thing that we still know nearly nothing about. Sure, we've benefitted from it immensely. But so many people around the world put their blind trust in it. Their faith, even. To a fault. A huge one.

We've let ourselves become hypnotized by the Traveler into thinking we're all safe. We've let ourselves become naïve about the world around us. We've let our guard down on a personal level. All in the name of achieving world peace and all—we claim—because the Traveler inspired us to do so.

We're comfortable. Complacent. Unprepared for the next time fate tells to wash us all away. And make no mistake, it will.

My daughter's not old enough yet to comprehend the Traveler. But she is impressionable enough to become weakened by it like the rest of society, should I let her.

I will not let her.

<|endoftext|>

Entry 25

Entry 25

We are not alone with the Traveler.

Something else has been detected out there. An anomaly of sorts. I'm lucky to have friends in informative places who tell me these things.

They don't know what it is. But there is something. Could be another Traveler. Could just be a wonky radio wave. Or could be something really bad.

On the off chance it IS something to be concerned about, shouldn't we be prepared to deal with it head-on before it arrives?

But how are we supposed to do that when the means to defend ourselves are not in the people's hands anymore? Don't get me wrong, it's not like I don't understand those decisions. They make sense, but…

Having a child changes your perspective on life. I won't feel comfortable unless I am the one doing something to protect my family. I can't be the only one.

No more sitting around thinking someone or something else will do it for us. I will handle it.

And I won't do it alone. I know just the right people who would appreciate the opportunity to be a part of something like this.

Something that the "powers that be" would never sanction. But like I've said in the past, we don't know what else is out there in the universe. What we, or our children, or our children's children might have to face one day.

We will be prepared.

<|endoftext|>

Entry 37

Entry 37

So this is what success looks like. We three, putting a stake in the ground for what we believe in.

Some may disagree with what we're doing. I don't care. We have to champion all that we hold dear. Who we are: our values, our cultures… all that we believe in as human beings. This is why we founded the Black Armory.

Our works. They're beautiful. All of them. Finely crafted. Made from the strongest of materials. Durable, accurate.

It took me some time to create our first few designs, but I wanted to get them right. Make them distinct, to reflect who we are. Mothers. Fathers. Sons. Daughters. Friends. Lovers.

If the day comes that we need to wield these weapons against—I don't even know what—they'll be there to remind us what we are fighting for, what we are defending. Where we come from.

I am so lucky to have found Helga and Yuki, my co-founders, who share these feelings so deeply.

The Black Armory owes its continued success to them. I am in awe. Helga's formerly from Clovis Bray. She handles the business side of things. Yuki's our resident engineer. Handles the science and mechanics of it all.

Every day I get to admire these women and everything they do right. They put so much of themselves into our work. Their soul, their heritage. And they do it all for the cause.

We've become one big family. I couldn't be happier.

<|endoftext|>

Entry 41

Entry 41

Our forge is up and running. The first of its kind. This is momentous for us. For the Black Armory.

I should be thrilled. "Should" being the key word here.

But I didn't ask to build a mobile weapon factory. I didn't come up with the idea. Helga and Yuki did. Suffice it to say, lately we haven't been agreeing on things as much as we used to.

With the "anomaly," they believe now more than ever that we need our work out there. Easily accessible in the moment, they said. In much greater number, they said.

We're growing fast. Too fast. Which means mass production. Which in turn means less control over our work. How it's distributed, who it's distributed to, etc. It means more weapons to defend ourselves, yes, but not in every single person's hands. That was not my vision. Power without control leads to chaos. It's a give and take.

And nothing says less control quite like placing portable weapon printers all around the world. Hell, they're even discussing putting them on other planets.

I guess I always thought this operation would stay more intimate, more focused.

I know that Helga and Yuki are just looking out for the Armory's best interests. Helga's always reminding us—obnoxiously might I add—that until the little green aliens invade, this is as much a business as a cause.

So I signed off on it.

Helga can keep being the semi-cruel one around here. I'll just work harder to preserve our heart.

<|endoftext|>

Entry 50

Entry 50

Today I gave Helga a piece of my mind.

She came to me with another "opportunity" for the Armory. Another chance to increase our production. But this project is really crossing a line for me.

Exos. I never liked the idea of them in the first place. They're not Humans. They don't have a soul. They're nothing but the experiments of Humans playing God. Since when has that gone well? If one day they decide they don't like the rest of us, what recourse do we have? It'll be slaughter.

Thinking about combining that technology with ours makes me sick.

Helga knew how I would feel about this. She absolutely knew. And yet she brought it to me anyway. She even brought up Titan again! They're talking about a potential evacuation. "People will need protection more than ever," she said. "This is the logical next step."

Yuki tried to play both sides as usual. She means well. Always getting between me and Helga when things start to get ugly. She usually knows just how to calm things down, and I admire her for it, but not this time.

This was not the purpose of the Black Armory.

<|endoftext|>

Entries 67, 68

Entry 67

The Traveler is on the move. And they say it's coming here. To earth.

I didn't take the news of Titan's evacuation seriously enough. I should have. I should have listened to Helga and Yuki.

This is bigger than just me. It's about all of us.

If Project Niobe can help Humanity, then it's our duty to press forward with it.

Even if it means working closely with some unsavory types… sometimes that's the cost of protection.

It's only a matter of time now.

---

Entry 68

They are here. They are real.

I can't believe we were so… right.

…and so wrong. To think that we could stop this. To say we were naïve would be an understatement.

We simply didn't know. Their power. Their strength.

It's insurmountable.

As they draw closer, all we can do is hide and hope that the facility doors will be strong enough. It's utter chaos out there.

Too many put their faith in the Traveler. I don't know what sort of answers people expect from a gigantic ball in the sky. It remains silent, as always.

At least I'm with her. Being with family is what matters in the end.

There is no more hope.

Only the screams of humanity.

<|endoftext|>

Entries 70, 71, 72

Entry 70

The howling is loudest at night.

By dawn, the quiet returns and with it, the horrid smell that brings the dogs.

I long for the moment I can pry those doors open and leave this place.

As I tried to sleep, I realized I couldn't recall the last time I heard a songbird.

Do any yet live? I haven't noticed.

---

Entry 71

Last night we awoke in the middle of the night to the sound of something pounding on the walls. It roared and stomped and howled in frustration… until it found the doors. They didn't hold.

I never saw it. We were too occupied blindly firing around a corner. I just remember the smell of wet earth, and a sound I've never heard before. Like a machine being stretched and then compressed.

When it was over, we'd lost members of our Black Armory family and the thing—whatever it was—got away.

I lost one of my sisters. Helga…

We had our problems, but she was right about so many things. I know that now.

I wish I could have told her.

---

Entry 72

My daughter was injured during the attack.

She's unconscious.

I can't…

<|endoftext|>

Entries 92, 93, 94, 95

Entry 92

This whole thing was supposed to be about life. And here I stand, not by choice, looking out into the void. Only death stares back.

I'm told to hold my emotions inside. To be strong.

But how? Under these circumstances, who in their right mind could do that?

I'm told this is bigger than me. That I'm not allowed to forget that.

Again, who in their right mind could do that?

Who in their right mind. Their right mind. Maybe that's it. Why I'm considering this. In all my desperation, I'm not really in my right mind.

This whole thing was about life. It still is. It has to be.

So… I'll do it. I have to do it. I have to.

For her.

---

Entry 93

Yuki is in the lab. It's happening right now.

My anxiety is out of control. The universe is getting smaller every day as humanity is dismantled piece by piece. If we don't stop the bleeding, what will become of us? In the end, all my reservations about manufacturing guns are gone. We have no other choice.

It's so important the Black Armory succeed, and yet I awoke this morning with a truly selfish thought in my head: What if I turned and ran? Yuki could take the reins. Or whoever. Let someone else carry on.

Then I had some coffee. Cried a little. But I'm done wallowing in self-pity now. Too much is at stake.

I hope everything goes well, rushing the process might not have been a good idea. This sort of thing has never been done here on Earth. We're definitely not going to be able to call Clovis Bray in case of hiccups.

My life's work is in Yuki's hands now.

I'm exhausted.

I'd like to hear the birds sing again. I hope they escaped.

---

Entry 94
I sealed that damaged entrance as best I could. The busy work helped me ignore what was happening in the lab. What's still happening.

But we can't stay here. They're going to attack again and this time, we won't make it.

There's no time to finish the process in the labs. We'll have to do it from the road.

We leave at dawn.

---

Entry 95

I buried her remains this morning.

Yuki and I had a short ceremony.

No time to look back. We have to leave.

<|endoftext|>

Entries 99, 100, 101

Entry 99

It's noon and the trucks are finally loaded. A late start. Dead crows on the ground this morning. A bad omen.

Only Yuki, myself, and three more of our Black Armory family remain. Well, the five of us and… the Exo. I only caught a glimpse of her so far. So much is riding on that metal and synth body.

We woke her today. I can't look her in the eye…

The birds are missing from the sky. We're going to head to the airport and then try to pick the safest destination.

I was the last one out of the lab. I wonder if I'll ever see it again.

---

Entry 100
The Exo has so many questions for me. I have some for her, too, but our current situation isn't the time or the place. We took fire on the road this afternoon. Fortunately, they were not as heavily armed as we were.

My fears of putting weapons in the hands of everyone have come true. Humans just can't be trusted. WE HAVE THE SAME ENEMIES, YOU IDIOTS! Even as the bones of civilization are picked clean, we continue fight one another.

---

Entry 101
Trucks are stuck. We may need to proceed on foot.

Travelers are heading in the opposite direction now. I'm questioning my decision to abandon the lab.

It's just one of many decisions I'd like to have back.

<|endoftext|>

Entries 104, 105

Entry 104

Well, today was horrible.

We had some downtime, so Yuki wanted to test the Exo's new functionality. This was the entire purpose of the Exo in the first place. Project Niobe. Helga's great experiment to make our weapons more deadly through a sort of on-the-spot phase transition of the guns. In other words, a walking, talking forge.

Years ago, it was just an idea. Now, it's a reality. Seeing the Exo discover her ability was… well, thrilling. It was nice to feel something other than dread for a few minutes. And a few minutes was about all we got.

We were sloppy. While the Exo practiced using her ability, we were ambushed by… I don't even know what they were.

They were definitely not regular Humans. They had… abilities. That the rest of us don't. We took one down, we thought. But then his little red drone lit up and he was on his feet again.

We kept firing. They didn't expect to run into an armory on foot, so they ran.

But not before killing some of us and wounding Yuki.

She promises I'm still stuck with her, though. I'd be lost without her.

---

Entry 105

We traveled all night to put as much distance between us and our attacker as possible.
The Exo is carrying Yuki now. It's clear she doesn't have long.

She's asked me to leave her behind.

This family is all we have left. We will do no such thing.

<|endoftext|>

Entries 108, 109, 110

Entry 108

Yuki… is dead. It didn't happen like I thought it would.

One of the men who had attacked us returned. This time with an offer. He wanted the Exo. He had seen what she was capable of back at the truck. How she turned our weapons into something even more deadly with nothing but her hands.

The Exo stood, willing to sacrifice herself for us.

I was horrified, but before I could say anything, Yuki lied and said she had the Obsidian Accelerator. That it was in her backpack.

The man approached her cautiously as she quickly looked at me. That one last look. The same one that had calmed me down so many times. She reached for the backpack as the man drew near.

The Exo grabbed me and gave me cover as the grenade exploded, shielding me from the flaming shrapnel. Then she helped me up and we ran. I looked back once.

The man's red drone was shining its terrible light about the carnage looking for its master.

He'll get up again. He knows what she can do.

He will be looking for us.

Yuki… I'm so sorry.

---

Entry 109

Three days later. Still numb. It's unbearable.

It's just me and her now.

---

Entry 110

She and I spent the night under the wing of a crashed jet. I realize now as I write this that I haven't seen a plane in the sky. Not once since we set out. This is not the world I knew.

Every time I look at her, I'm thinking about it. This is not the world I knew.

<|endoftext|>

Entry 115, 116, 117

Entry 115

The airport isn't safe anymore. The control tower is ablaze and the monstrous sounds on the wind will keep us from investigating any further.

---

Entry 116

We walk parallel to the roads and lie down in hiding when we hear other travelers. My legs are sore and my mouth is dry from answering her barrage of questions. There's so much of this world that she doesn't understand, and so much I want to tell her, but I just can't. Not right now. Yuki's death has weighed on us both, yet she retains an innocence. I'm trying so very hard not to ruin it.

We came across the remains of a petrol-burning car in the forest and she asked if it could still be alive. I had to explain it was never alive. Those machines had no souls. I instantly regretted saying that, because it only lead to more painful inquiries. I told her I had a headache and needed some quiet.

---

Entry 117

When the sun is up, we're wary of other Humans. When the moon rises, we worry about worse creatures. We're on a road to nowhere now, and I was always paranoid, but I can't shake the feeling that the man I let escape is watching us.

Going further inland would be a mistake. That has become clear from the increasing destruction we're encountering. I'm hopeful that if we can make it south to the Mediterranean Sea, even if it means going through the Alps, we might be able to find a small boat. An island sounds perfect, and I think Corsica should be the end goal. But with our luck it will be beset by some sort of invincible sea monsters.

<|endoftext|>

Entry 123

Entry 123

Nostalgia overcame me today. We came upon an amusement park I used to love, back before all this.

But now, nature had begun to lay claim to this place. Fortunately, I could still describe most of it in detail.

I showed her where I liked to eat, where I rested my weary feet, and even a petting zoo, where I'd appreciated the beauty of exotic animals. I started to tell her stories about when I was here with my family… but a scratch in my throat made me stop. I suppose these wounds are still bleeding.

<|endoftext|>

Entries 142, 143, 144

Entry 142

My head has been down as I walk through this new world with such an inquisitive young soul. Her gaze is often to the sky, and today we were rewarded with our first living creature in a while. A butterfly. She was lost in its beauty. The wings fluttered past her bright eyes and this wreck of a world fell away. It reminded me of Hugo's Vere Novo. Reciting poetry in this devastated world felt cathartic.

I told her that she has so much in common with this beautiful winged creature. Butterflies start as so much less and make themselves something more.

Perhaps if either of us had any tears, we would have cried.

---

Entry 143

I thought I saw one of those small drones pass over us today. We were picking berries and watching out for more butterflies when I thought I caught a glimpse of the damned thing.

I made her promise: No matter what happens, if they catch you, you must not trust them—not ever.

---

Entry 144

These are difficult days and nights. It's slow traveling off the roads, and we're on each other's nerves now. She observed that "the other people from the Black Armory were nicer." I snapped at her, but… she's right. At least these days, anyway.

The barrage of questions continues. She wants to know why she's special. Why we needed her here. Where she comes from. I still can't muster up the answers. I find it easier to bury my face in this journal or pretend to be asleep than to face her questions. We are still quite a ways from the shore.

<|endoftext|>

Entries 150, 151

Entry 150

I put this journal aside for a long time. I've been too tired to write in it. My clothes are looser, and she is concerned that I'm "shedding mass." This is not how I ever wanted to get to know her.

At night, I started singing to myself to calm my nerves. She paid rapt attention and shortly asked me to teach her the song, "Le Temps Des Cerises." She asks how I know it, but I'm in no condition to talk about him. It's just an old family tradition I tell her.

Is it lying? I wonder if it really matters now.

---

Entry 151

I tried to answer some of her questions. About the Black Armory, about life before the end… about what I believed in. About what makes us who we are. About what makes her who she is.

If you don't know where you come from, how can you know who you are? Our past defines us more than we are willing to admit.

All this—all that is lost—I'm telling her that she should care for it. Our past is precious and needs to be remembered.

I tell her this realizing that I'm the one holding back. I'm the one keeping secrets. I'm the hypocrite. Stopped me from being able to even look at her.

Someday, probably soon, she'll be the only life our legacy has left.

Maybe one day I won't be such a coward. Maybe then I'll tell her everything.

<|endoftext|>

Entries 157, 158, 159

Entry 157

We've arrived at the shoreline. There's a small, organized camp here. Unfortunately, all that floats, and some things that don't, have already set to sea. There will be no boating away from Europe. Corsica is off the list for now.

---

Entry 158

I've had an anxiety attack. A woman with a drone has shown up at camp. She seems to be law and order here.

She made a point of being impressed with our charged Black Armory weapons. Does she have good taste, or does she know more than she lets on?

We can't take the risk. We'll have to leave soon.

---

Entry 159

Today some young children and their parents asked if Ada wouldn't mind holding their hands and talking to them. Apparently this is their first encounter with an Exo. She takes to them with ease. Makes them feel comfortable like it's nothing. Her innocence shines. She has such a good heart.

She enjoys playing with the children. She's quite good at "hide and seek," a skill I'm more than happy to let her hone. The children love her playfulness. There are two other Exos in this camp, and three of them have become fast friends.

Seeing her experience others makes me realize that she deserves to be free of me, but I can't resolve to let her go.

<|endoftext|>

Entries 170, 171

Entry 170

Last night, the peace of the refugee camp abruptly ended. Thunder and lightning reverberated in our ears. The people with drones fought a battle in the camp against other people with drones. She and I took this opportunity to escape by following the shoreline for a few miles.

I know why they're here. I recognized one of them. The man from before. The one with the red drone. The one who killed Yuki.

They are here for the Obsidian Accelerator. We have to leave.

---

Entry 171

We watched the camp burn from the cliffs. I saw the people with the drones fan out in all directions. I could follow the paths they cut through the darkness by the flickering of their drones' light.

There's no time for anything else, and despite her concerns, she has opened up to me.

I'm removing the Obsidian Accelerator and sending her down the road. They can come and get it from me. Not her.

This is likely goodbye…

<|endoftext|>

Final Entry

Final Entry

Dear Adelaide,

When those people and their drones found me alone at that deserted intersection they demanded to know where you were. I offered them the Obsidian Accelerator. I gave it freely.

You promised you would leave me, and you did… but you never said how far you would go, did you? You stayed close enough to watch through your scope.

As the man took aim at my head, I heard the shot and assumed I was dead. But it was him who was dead, not me. You were so far that none of us knew where to look.

The second man winged me with one of our own weapons. He began to gloat about that, but another round from you shut him up. Two more thunderous shots, and their drones were as dead as they were.

I saw the glare from your scope disappear, and I knew you were heading away. I know you must feel guilty, but don't. It was I who wronged you.

I grabbed the accelerator and got as far from the shouts of the aggressors as I could. They've been on my tail. By now, you're long gone and I've lead those people back inland.

But I'm done running. The end of my story is close, as it probably should be. So I guess it's time I tell you a few things about, well, you. The end of your life should have followed its natural trajectory. I'm ashamed I changed it for selfish reasons.

Does the name "Adelaide" bring you any flicker of recognition? It is your birth name, and you heard it every day of your life until the day I sent you without your consent into a new world.

You became Ada-1 when I robbed you of your end. I've loved you since before you were born, and in trying to give you everything, perhaps I've robbed you of a final human experience: a dignified death.

I know I will not see you again. If you want to know about your past, know that you were born a second time in the Niobe Labs. When you were wounded at the labs and I saw you were losing your fight, I did what I always did when the chips were down: I… created something. You, Ada-1. From what I had almost completely lost. I did it out of fear of losing you forever. I charted the course of your life and made decisions that were yours to make, not mine.

I hope you find it in your heart to forgive me for that.

I was naïve. Looked too often to the past. I just couldn't let any of it go. I never did have much respect for the natural order of things. And Helga, well… she was the opposite of me. She only wanted to grow the Armory, to see its full potential. And Yuki helped make that vision possible. The two of them spent as much time looking ahead as I did looking back.

I realize now that there's a balance to life. You look backward a little, you look forward a little. But most importantly, you live in the here and now. You appreciate what you have, because you never know when it'll all be snatched from you.

Learn from our successes and our missteps. Be bold. Do not fear the future. Respect the past. And never forget where you came from. And try never to fear death, if you can help it. I know I don't anymore.

You know what's funny? I never considered how lucky I was for the time we had together. The envy of all the mothers who ever lived.

I got to love you twice.

Your Mother,
Henriette

<|endoftext|>

Seeds and Cuttings

1.

On the day she boards the Yang Liwei, they call her Nasya Sarwar. She carries in her knapsack an unopened letter from her brother, her mother's ashes, a selection of seeds and cuttings from her favorite neighborhood trees and plants, and some thirty thousand songs and short videos on a hand-me-down myoelectric augment.

On the ship's manifest, Nasya Sarwar is one of two dozen classless Scopares, trash collectors and composters and caretakers devoted to endlessly tidying the many surfaces and people within the Yang Liwei that cannot or do not clean themselves. She hopes through hard work and perseverance, she will prove herself worthy of one of the ship's remaining civilian cryopods, or—even better—a promotion to an Auturge position where she believes she'll find the freedom to devote her waking hours entirely to the loving care of the ship's hydroponics facilities.

Nasya is quadrilingual. Several of her fellow Scopares are not: born monolinguals who got lucky in international Exodus lotteries, just like she did. When they realize that she can speak to some of them, they do their best to befriend her. They share meals. They show her photos of the loved ones they left behind. They explain the function of the ship's many impossible machines. In turn, she does her best to teach them how to speak to the others. In this way, they are all a little less alone.

She is twenty-seven years old.


2.

On the day she awakens in the Distributary, she names herself Nasan Ar. She carries in her hands a small silver jar. A dent has crushed its lid; it is impossible to open. She does not know its provenance, but she feels an inexplicable tugging of grief in her chest when she thinks about walking on without it.

She makes herself a home under the largest tree she can find. In the early days, it is little more than a lean-to and a campfire, but she shares it willingly with whoever passes by. Her guests help her transform the lean-to into a proper cottage with several guest beds. One cottage becomes two, then two is three, until three becomes a village.

Nasan loves her guests and friends; she loves her little ramshackle community... but she never wished to become mother or mayor. Whenever they gather in the evening for dinner, she feels claustrophobic anxiety press tight around her. She is shackled to the earth by all these people that she loves, and she has no words to explain her own restlessness. She feels monstrous. Why doesn't she love this? Why doesn't she want to stay?

One clear night, amid the honey-heavy smell of spring flowers and recent rain, she takes her silver jar and goes out into the dripping dark.


3.

She wanders. She tries on lives like she is trying on city-tailored fashions: for a few weeks, she is a Corsair. Then for a whole summer, she is a field hand. When she tires of that, she balances books for an atom merchant who trades in radioactive materials. Nothing holds her. Seeing her silver jar, one man suggests she may be a treasure hunter. The idea sends her deep into a subterranean cavern where she finds no treasure, but instead bioluminescent worms and a Paladin who calls herself Sjur Eido.

"If you're looking for a job," Sjur says, "I should introduce you to my boss."


4.

On the day Nasan finds her calling, the Diasyrm styles her a translator. It confuses her, because the Speech is the Speech. Variations have developed over time, but none are so distant from each other that two Awoken from around the world cannot speak to each other. "What do you mean?" Nasan asks.

"Well," the Diasyrm says. "I've been watching since you arrived. People look to you when they're fighting, and you try to understand each side before you try to help. When you speak, you do it deftly, without condescension." She considers Nasan. "It seems to me that you lend people grace when you help them explain themselves."

A little candle of pride flickers in Nasan's throat. "That's just mediation," she says, glancing away.

"Don't sell yourself short. Anyone can break up a fight. Few people can so clearly grasp the spirit of a thought, then rephrase it so that deaf ears hear it. Gifts like that can end wars." Thinking on that, the Diasyrm sobers. "We'll have to keep your talent to ourselves, for now. The Sanguine would just as soon cut out your tongue."


5.

The Theodicy War is a fact of life until it isn't. The killing stops, but the wounds remain. Nasan helps the Awoken mend. Her friends urge her to speak publicly, to help people on a grander scale, but Nasan believes the most effective change happens in groups of fewer than ten.

<|endoftext|>

Chords of Meaning

6.

She is standing in a crowd of thousands when Mara Sov tells the Awoken about the dying world they abandoned. The idea sucker-punches her—one crippling jab to every tender part of her. For four sleepless nights, she can scarcely draw a breath without gulping. She holds her silver jar to her forehead, focusing on its cool constant weight, and knows that she must leave.


7.

She finds her old friend Sjur. Amid the feverish departure preparations, there is somehow time for an introduction to Mara. Nasan makes a pledge of herself and her skills. She will do what she can to convince those who might stay behind—

"No," Mara interrupts with the bite of unsweetened tea. "I would not ask that of you or anyone else."

Nasan hesitates.

"Help those who have already made their choice, whatever it is. Help them with the grief." She clasps Nasan's hand. The stress around her eyes eases. "That's more important."


8.

The exodus is absolute in its terror. Nasan has never felt such a profound sense of schism—not when leaving lovers, nor communities, nor cherished hiding places.

As the Distributary shrinks behind their Hulls, she looks down at the little silver jar in her hands and wonders who she left behind in the world they're returning to protect. She wonders if they might still be alive.


9.

Sjur is as plain and ready a companion as she ever was in the Diasyrm's camp, but Mara is an enigma. Nasan feels drawn to her, not by her porcelain beauty, but by her onion-skin layers of defense. There are so many different truths that ring through Mara's carefully chosen words: chords of nuanced meaning that she feels she might be able to separate out into cleaner notes for frightened minds craving simplicity.

She does what she can. In quiet hours and fragmented conversations, she becomes an unconventional counselor to the would-be queen.

When the first fragile attempts at rebuilding society run afoul of the Long Unquiet Night, then the discovery of the Traveler and the Fallen, and then inevitably turn to riot and desertion, Nasan goes to Mara again to pledge her services. "Let me go after them," she begs, not a day after the proclamation that they all hear in their skulls instead of their ears. "I don't mean to change their minds or convince them to come back. I just—"

"Then what DO you mean to do?" Sjur asks curiously. Mara watches her with ageless patience, waiting for her to find the words.

Nasan purses her lips. "I want them to understand that you are—that you—that you are good. That you aren't what they think." Seeing Sjur bristle, she holds up her hand. To her relief, Mara makes a slight warding gesture as well. "And if they know that and still wish to live apart from us on Earth, that's fine. That's their choice."

"I don't need them to understand that," Mara says softly. There is the faintest husk of grief in her steady voice.

"No," Nasan agrees, relieved that Mara is willing to consider this truth. "You don't. You have the courage to be disliked, and that is uncommon. But it is just as important, sometimes, to cultivate good will..." Especially if you have forgotten what it feels like to not know everything, she thinks.

Mara looks away. Nasan watches closely and thinks that perhaps she has been heard. Sjur shifts her weight impatiently, tired by all this meaningful silence. It has been a long nineteen hours.

"If you go," Mara says finally, "you cannot come back."

Nasan hears the truth in it. She reaches to clasp Mara's hand. "Of course."


10.

So she goes to Earth. She carries a survival kit, a hunting rifle, and the tarnished silver jar that has followed her through her whole existence.

She finds no Awoken as she wanders an empty prairie. She spreads no gospel.

It is not two weeks before a band of Risen—wild with fear of themselves, each other, and the unknown—ambush her lonely campsite and kill her in her sleep.

<|endoftext|>

Risen

11.

On the day her Ghost resurrects her, she asks him for a name and he calls her Orin. He asks her for a name and she calls him Gol. Marrow-deep instinct drives that decision; she could not declare its etymology if someone held a knife to her throat.

Gol explains that there is a settlement a few days' walk to the east, that there is no road, and that the wilderness is regularly patrolled by roving aliens who will try to kill them both. As he speaks, Orin looks around. They are surrounded by a young forest vivacious with birds and clouds of gnats. It is impossible to imagine that a deadly alien might be lurking somewhere nearby. But Gol found her. Gol knows more about the world than she does. She trusts him.

She scavenges the leaf litter until she finds a fallen tree limb. "Will this help?" she asks him, testing its heft. He twists his wings, puzzled. "...Against the aliens," she elaborates.

"Oh." Courteous, he pretends to consider it, then, "No. Probably not. They have guns."

"I see," she says, though she doesn't. She breaks off the smaller branches, using her foot for leverage. Soon, she has a crude mace. It is heavy, slow, and does not break when she tests it against a tree trunk.

She doesn't know what the aliens look like. She does not know what guns are.  She does trust Gol. But, she can't help thinking, if an alien tried to attack her while she was armed with a stick like this, she would have no trouble crushing its skull.


12.

They reach the settlement. It is smoldering cinder and ruin. Gol frets about "fission products" and "acute radiation," so Orin lingers at a distance and studies what remains. A cat moves among the most distant rubble, hunting for mice. A tattered banner stirs in the breeze. She sees nothing more, so she ignores Gol's warning and goes in for a closer look.

She finds bodies. Adults, mostly. Some children. There are little houses for big animals, but there are no big animals among the dead.

"How did this happen?" she asks, overcome by grief for these charred strangers. "Aliens?"

"I doubt it. The Fallen don't often use nuclear weapons. It ruins the land. My guess is that a Warlord raided this place for its livestock and then set off a bomb."

"Why?"

Gol gives a little shrug, bobbing in place. "Why not? No one was here to stop them."

Orin clenches her mace a little tighter. She feels nauseous. "Can you tell when it happened?"

He runs the computations. "Not precisely. Less than thirty-six hours ago, I suppose."

"I should have walked faster," she mutters, and then bends over to be sick.

"You can't do that here," Gol interrupts anxiously. "Stop, Orin. Stop. You have radiation poisoning. If you're sick here, you'll die here, and then I'll have to resurrect you here, and you'll be sick and die again and again. You have to move. Come. I told you not to walk around here."

<|endoftext|>

War Hammer

13.

Orin graduates from wooden mace to stolen Scorch Cannon, from bare flesh to salvaged plate. The Fallen do not interest her, but they are well-provisioned. She hunts them to better hunt Warlords, and makes many enemies of many older, wilier Risen than she.


14.

The Pilgrim Guard finds her pinned down in a box canyon, fighting alone and out of ammunition against a gang of six mercenaries. She is a graceless fighter with an unflappably grim resolve, so when they sweep in to help her, she does not immediately recognize them as the cavalry; she sees them coming, considers the odds, and then raises her empty Scorch Cannon to wield as a maul. Seventeen to one? She'll try her luck.

They laugh about it later over weak tea and hardtack.


15.

When the Guard invites her to join them, they present her with a war hammer. It is as tall as she is. Along its grip, they've engraved the words I AM THE END OF ALL THINGS in tidy block print.


16.

She meets a young woman whose skin looks like hers.

"Where did you come from?" Orin asks, staring too hard, standing a little too close. It is impossible not to: every other blue-skinned person she has ever seen has either been dead or a distant figure hurrying for a gleaming ship.

The young woman cringes away from her. "The Sinaloan ruins."

"Are there other people there like you?"

"No."

Hearing her question, one of her friends pulls her aside to point up at the sky. "Your people are up there," he says. "They live among the asteroids."

"Why aren't they here?" she asks, but he has no answer.


17.

The everyday rhythm of the Pilgrim Guard suits her for decades: eradicate Warlords and alien invaders; protect mortal civilians; guide homeless refugees to safety. Their numbers wax and wane over time, but they are forever the watchers-in-the-dark, the living-shield-that-shelters, the ladder-which-humanity-will-climb-toward-rebirth. Inspiring campfire speeches are an endless fact of life, and they buoy her until she begins to recognize the leitmotifs of self-sacrificing heroism.

Orin loves her leaders and friends; she loves her little ramshackle community... but she never wished to become soldier or symbol. Whenever they gather in the evening for dinner, she feels claustrophobic anxiety press around her. She is shackled to the wilds by all these people that she loves, and she has no words to explain her own restlessness. Alone on night watch, she tells Gol that she feels monstrous. Why doesn't she love this? Why doesn't she want to stay?

<|endoftext|>

Question After Question

18.

There are stories of a massive settlement in the far south. Rumors call it "The Last Safe City," a place of peace and prosperity guarded by indestructible Old Russian warriors who fight alongside twenty-foot-tall wolves (whatever those are).

The Pilgrim Guard has heard of many so-called safe cities. They come and go, but mostly they go.

Still, they reroute their caravan. The land down south is good: arable, temperate, and with too many indigenous parasites for the Fallen to wish it as a customary home. Even if there is no safe city there, it is a better place to guide civilians than the ravaged deserts and plains of the north.

Orin hopes the rumors are true, but it is a selfish hope: If the city is real, and people are safe there, then maybe she can rest.


19.

"City" is a misnomer; it has been a misnomer since this place's inception. It is a chaotic sprawl of tents and shabby lean-tos. There is not a single permanent structure among them. The streets are nothing more than muddy pathways that smell of waste and smoke. But the people! Neither Orin nor Gol have seen so many people in all their lives.

Filthy children scream with laughter as they play tag around salvaged tanks. A civilian militia stands vigil over cassava farmers. Armored Risen bicker over where they should mark the city's borders and how best to defend them.

The Traveler looms overhead as Orin wanders through it all, wide-eyed and exhilarated.


20.

The Pilgrim Guard prepares to move out, provisioned to make an eighteen-month expedition through the far north. Orin stays behind. No one questions her decision, though they do grieve it. Each one of them cuts a notch into the grip of her war hammer until it reads I I I I I I I I I AM THE END OF ALL THINGS.


21.

There are Awoken here in this safe city. They are uncommon, though Exos are even rarer. Most have Ghosts, as she does. A few do not, and it's these people that Orin is most fascinated by.

She dogs them with relentless patience, asking question after question: Where did you come from? Why have you come here? Where are the rest of us? Where did you get that gun? What are those bullets made out of? Why doesn't everyone have those bullets? Do people ever move to avoid you? Do you hear voices when you are alone? Are your dreams ever like omens? If I was one of you, why didn't anyone ever come looking for me?

<|endoftext|>

Queenslaw

22.

Namqi Sen is the first person to take her seriously. "If we're going to talk a while, we might as well sit down," he says, gesturing to a nearby stack of ammunition crates.

He is a pilot from the Reef and he has been sent to recover downed surveillance drones he calls Crows. His Hildian sustained damage during a dog-fight with a Fallen skiff, and now an important pump is leaking. He cannot find the source of the leak, nor does he have the supplies to repair it. The rest of the Awoken are at home, in the Reef.

The gun is a standard-issue Tigerspite AR; it uses cased telescoped rounds made of a proprietary plasteel-spinmetal blend. There are engineers hard at work on manufacturing techniques that will allow for widespread distribution of the weapon to Risen and civilian populations on Earth.

People do avoid him. Earthborn and Risen Awoken almost never speak to him; he is surprised that she bothered. He does hear voices; he does have prophetic dreams. He describes it all in detail and she is shocked by how familiar it sounds. It is like listening to a recording of herself.

At her final question, he hesitates. He runs a grimy hand through his hair and looks up at the stars. They have been talking a long time. "If we're going to talk some more," he says at last, "we might as well have a drink."


23.

Namqi is not particularly tall, nor particularly handsome. Taken in isolation, parts of him are beautiful. His nose. His hands. The lines of his throat. The coruscating light that passes over his skin fascinates her; she watches to see if its patterns match her own. They do not.

Most of all, Orin is struck by his ability to listen with empathy. He is quiet more often than not. Long silences don't frighten him. And when he speaks, he does it deftly, without condescension.


24.

It takes eight weeks to repair the leaking pump. In that time, Orin convinces Namqi to break queenslaw and smuggle her and Gol beyond the Vestian Outpost. She is determined to understand why she revolted against her own people.

They are scarcely a half-day's burn toward Interamnia before they are intercepted by Galliots painted in the Queen's colors.


25.

"Woof," Sjur Eido says when she sees Orin for the first time, "Mara's gonna hate this." She crosses the detainment cell to get a better look at Gol. "Figured this might happen eventually, but I'd always hoped..." She pulls at the nape of her neck, then gives a little half-shrug: well, what can you do.

Turning, she looks at Namqi. "You know you broke the law, right?"

He nods.

She claps him on the shoulder and smiles. "My man."


26.

Two Paladins deliver her to Mara Sov. Gol is not permitted in the court, nor is Namqi.

"I knew you," Orin says before Mara can speak. It is uncourtly etiquette, she supposes, but they are alone and she is too bold to fear offense.

"What do you remember?"

Orin gives a slight shake of her head. Moments pass. Mara, too, is comfortable with silence. Behind her mask of composed indifference, her eyes are sharp with curiosity.

"Why did I leave?" Orin asks.

"You wished to be my emissary."

"And you banished me for it?" She squints. "That doesn't seem like something you'd do..."

Mara smiles faintly. "No."


27.

They have several more conversations.

The revelations are absolute in their terror. Orin has never felt such a profound sense of schism—not when learning that most mortals would sooner swallow cyanide pills than come face-to-face with a Risen, nor that the Eliksni were once abandoned by the Traveler, nor that almost all Warlords are Lightbearers.


28.

But the queenslaw is, of course, the queenslaw. It must be upheld—but the spirit of the law often differs from its letter.

Namqi accepts a sentence of five years' indentured servitude to the crown for smuggling Orin into Reef holdings. They let him pick his detail and negotiate his salary.

Orin's case is not so simple. She is not who she was, so after vigorous philosophical debate, it is decreed that she cannot be held accountable for her past oaths. But she engaged in witting trespass, aided and abetted by a learned civilian, and for that, she must sacrifice a boon: an unnamed future debt of the crown's choosing.

Orin accepts the sentence gladly and returns to Earth to mend her wounds. She needs to think. She needs to talk.

<|endoftext|>

Debt

29.

It seems everyone knows the Pilgrim Guard now. Their numbers have quintupled, and only continue to grow. The grateful civilians of the Last Safe City style them Guardians, and they wear the title well.

Orin is glad to see her friends doing so well. She does not rejoin them.


30.

During his sentence, Namqi maintains daily contact with Orin via vidcom and holoprojection.

When he is released, she begs him to come get her. She wants to understand what humanity was trying to achieve before it stooped to setting off nuclear warheads in order to steal a few cows.

They scour the inner planets in his Hildian. When parts of it break down, they work odd jobs.

They are deliriously happy.

Centuries pass.


31.

On the day that Sjur Eido dies, she receives a call from Mara Sov. "I would ask for my boon," the queen says with shaking voice.

It is the first time she dares to trust a Guardian. It will not be the last.


32.

The Queen paces as Orin leans on her war hammer. "I need to know who killed her," Mara says.

"To know, or to see them killed?"

Mara's grief and anger blaze across her face. She looks out at the Reef as she struggles to master herself.

Orin imagines Namqi dead and clenches her war hammer a little tighter.

At last, Mara says, "First, to know." She gives Orin the strange coin that the search party found on Sjur's body. "I'm not sure it was a murder."


33.

The search sends her deep into a sublunar cavern where she finds no enemies, but instead clouds of steam and a half-man with grasping tentacles where his face should be.

"Forgive them," he rasps as she crushes his windpipe in her fist.

"Who?" she snarls, tightening her grip.

His face writhes with growing urgency. Reminding herself that she came here for answers first and vengeance second, she pushes him away. He staggers, steadies, reaches into his robes to draw something out—

"Orin!" Gol warns, but she's already seen it. She hefts her war hammer and strikes him hard in the chest. It is like hitting a ball off of a tee; there is no resistance. He caroms off of a dewy boulder with a sickening crunch—that is his spine; he will never stand straight again—and as he hits the ground, a tarnished silver jar slips from his fingers. The sound echoes as it bounces away into the dark.


34.

Orin uses a hunting knife and brute strength to puncture the jar's dented lid. She turns it over and pours a thin stream of pale grey powder into her gloved palm.

"Dust returns, it ever returns," the man chuckles wheezily. She looks up and he is gone.

<|endoftext|>

Synesthesia

35.

Orin begins to experience waking hallucinations. Immaterial strangers speak to her in unrecognizable languages. When she reaches for Namqi, she feels as if she is falling into him, being pulled through him, sieved into smaller and smaller scarves of some atom-self that he breathes into the blood of his bones. When she continues her hunt for the Queen, she feels a crushing fist around her windpipe. There is something she must say, but she has no words to say it. There is somewhere she must go. Someone she must be.

It is not horrifying, though she thinks it should be. Instead, it is unspeakably lonely.


36.

It grows steadily worse, until it is not possible to tell the difference between day and dream.

She tries to describe her number-color synesthesia to Gol, to Namqi, to Mara. She sees green and thinks "nine." She reads "purple" and tastes nine.

They all tell her to stop. To rest. To be still. There have been other breakthroughs. Other messages. The Nine are known.

She cannot.

She hunts for the man with the writhing face.

She hunts for herself.


37.

On the day that Namqi dies, no one can reach her or Gol, though they do try.

She does not find out for months.


38.

On the day she meets Wu Ming, she is on Bamberga. She has just left a Gensym lab. She has just read a transcript of Namqi's last words. Her hands are shaking. She feels nauseous. She feels she can see herself in third-person, tottering to a safe place to sit and cry.

Wu Ming is a bonfire in the darkness, and she crawls toward his warmth.


39.

Wu Ming is ravenous for her stories of the Nine. He asks whether she's met them, whether they can give a man power, whether they know a way out of this solar system. Orin cannot answer any of his questions but she cannot keep her own stories down. She is sick with them; they come out in a compulsive bilious stream and when she is emptied, she talks of herself. Of her grief. Of her restlessness. How she feels the most alive in the empty spaces between blinks. How she feels she is a snake perpetually sloughing away its skin, except this last molt is all wrong and she is caught in the ghost-throat of her old self.

Wu Ming leaves his questions by the wayside as he is drawn inexorably into the gravity well of her desperate honesty. Her confessions lower his defenses. He talks of himself. Of his fear. Of his loneliness. How he feels he is one fingernail away from plummeting into an abyss. How he feels vicious resentment every time he is brought back from the dead: He never asked for the gift of the Light.


40.

They make excuse after excuse to meet again. Every conversation is colored by excavated truths; every day they feel they will reach some bedrock that will break them to pieces. It is as frightening as it is intoxicating.


41.

Lies!

Lies!

Lies!

He is not Wu Ming—he is a man named Eli—a man named Dredgen Hope—a man named the Drifter—

He is not vulnerable—he is a paranoid con man—he is a dead-hearted murderer—he is a cowardly liar—

He is not her friend—he is waiting to make his move—he has ALWAYS been waiting to make his move—

She is stupid; she is so stupid to have fallen for his lies!

She cannot mend this!


42.

She leaves and so too does the Light. The severance is absolute in its terror. She has not felt such a profound sense of—

S C H I S M?

it can be mended

Orin is not your name.

<|endoftext|>

Scales

43.

On the day she leaves to find the Nine, the Techeuns name her Orin the Lost. She raids a storeroom in the Vestian Outpost, stuffing into her knapsack digital schematics for a phaeton backscatter scanner, a jade coin, several bundles of dried queensfoil, and nothing more.


44.

She goes beyond the heliopause.

It is a long walk.

A sudden death.


45.

She sheds herself and emerges anew in the glimmering scales of her old lives: an immigrant, a translator, an emissary, a hammer of judgment. They expect to claim her will, but she clenches it a little tighter.

Her gifts can end wars.

<|endoftext|>

Heaven or Hell

"For the breadth of my formative years, I had one goal: find my—well, we all have our own word for them—my chosen. And every moment thereafter was dedicated to keeping him alive, whether he liked it or not. They were turbulent times, before the Last City. Before humanity found hope for the future. I was prepared to kill for it. Die for it." —A Ghost of the Dark Age


He opened his eyes in the night air and took an even breath. He wasn't sure how long he'd been asleep, but his immediate instinct was to—

"Run."

He froze. The voice wasn't his.

"You have to run."

The man stood up in the evening light. He looked down at himself and saw that someone had dressed him for his own funeral.  He didn't laugh, but he thought it was funny. The voice continued. "Can you hear me? Risen fight for territory in these highlands. We have to move."

For the first time, he noticed a small drone buzzing in the air around him, a blazing eye at its center glowing like a blue sun. It jerked its frame to the left, indicating the light of a faraway settlement. "Head west. I have friends there. They'll help us."

The man stared at the drone, frowned, and ran in the opposite direction.

"What? Hey!" the voice cried out behind him. He fled into darkness, tall grass on either side of him flying past. The only thing he could hear was his own breathing and the loud crush of the vegetation he trampled. He was surprised at how fast he was moving. The voice called to him again, far behind him.

He heard the roar of the machine before he saw it, and he didn't feel a thing as it exploded out of the tall grass to the right and landed on him, crushing him beneath its bulk.

**

He opened his eyes in the night air and took an even breath.

"You died," the drone explained, hovering over him. It was smeared with a dark, filmy paste. "I brought you back."

He stood up and looked down at himself. Same clothes. Nothing hurt. The hulking wreck of the machine that had killed him sat in pieces a few meters away, inside a dark, sooty crater.

The body of an armored man lay sprawled over the smoldering open-air cockpit, his helmet punctured by a small hole about the size of... the drone.

"Are you ready to listen? Let me take you to my friends," it said. "This region is full of raiders like this man. Led by Risen like you. You've got a lot of catching up to do."

"What the hell are you?" the man spoke for the first time.

"I'm your Ghost. My only purpose is to support you," the drone replied.

"You work for me?"

"In a manner of speaking, yes."

"Is this the afterlife?"

"In a manner of speaking," the drone said, nodding at the western lights once more. "Can we go?"

"Not that way." The man headed in the opposite direction.

The drone watched him trample the high grass and disappear. It stared up at the massive, disfigured orb that dominated the sky, then made a small adjustment to the orbit pattern of its modular armor.

It hurried after the man.

<|endoftext|>

Dogma

He had been reduced to crawling. His Ghost cut serenely through the air above him.

"What the hell is wrong with me?" he demanded of the ground.

"You're dying from starvation," Ghost said flatly.

"I don't believe you," he sneered, as he dragged himself over some rocks.

"I could fix you," Ghost said.

"Don't need you," he said. "I got this."

"You're not going to pick a name?" Ghost asked. "Everyone picks a name."

"You talk too much."

"Some people pick names for their Ghosts, too. What should I call you, if you don't want a name?"

He had passed out. The sun beat down directly overhead, a searing marble in the sky. He died a day later after a scorpion stung his prone body. Ghost allowed it. A complete restart would be less complicated.

**

He opened his eyes and took an even breath. "What should I call you?" Ghost asked.

He looked at it, as if considering. Then down at his hands.

"I'm still hungry."

<|endoftext|>

Home, pt. I

"The Light is no gift. It takes everything from you. Makes you forget. Not just your memories. But how to live." —A Dark Age drifter


Eaton received its first visitors in years.

Germaine watched the armored men and women climb down from their silver transports. They were Risen, beings said to be unkillable, and they fought against each other in a war without end somewhere beyond Eaton's borders. This particular group, the Iron Lords, represented new ideology, and claimed they fought to put an end to the fighting.

Led by a man named Dryden, they had paid each family in Eaton several months' worth of supplies and rations to stay the week. They planned to stage an ambush on another of their kind, known only as the Red Man.

Two weeks ago, survival was in doubt. Now, because of the generosity of the Iron Lords, their little town would make it through the winter.

Germaine's friend Judson emerged from a neighboring supply shed and stuck a single finger in the air as the riders strode up. Germaine chuckled and shook his head, but said nothing.

"How you livin'," Judson  greeted the Risen, holding his finger high.

"Settle down, Judson," Germaine called out.

"Shut your hole, Germaine," Judson returned, hand still in the air. "Your name is stupid, and you're stupid, too."

Germaine shook his head and grinned ruefully.

Judson had warned the town against the arrangement, shouting to everyone who would listen that he'd take care of food, that the "iron freaks" would only bring trouble. He was a very good huntsman—possibly the best Eaton had ever seen, and somehow produced deer, duck, and bull from the decimated hills. But even Judson had come up short for months. The war beyond Eaton had intensified. The adults went hungry so the children could eat. It wasn't a sustainable position.

"We'll be out of your way soon," said one of the Iron Lords, who nodded at Judson as he passed by. Her voice was as metallic and cold as her helmet. Judson spat, and didn't take his eyes off them as they walked the length of the town to secure hidden positions around its perimeter.

<|endoftext|>

Home, pt. II

"Sir. This is awful." —A Dark Age drifter


Yu was nine cycles old and visited often. She and her family lived next to Judson, and sometimes they sent her to Germaine when their boisterous neighbor was too belligerent. As he was today. Germaine didn't mind.

"Judson doesn't think it was a good idea to let the iron people stay with us," she was saying. She paced slowly back and forth across the length of the shack, stepping carefully over the game of cards Germaine had laid out on the bare dirt floor.

"I know. But Judson says a lot of things. And sometimes you gotta be decisive. You see how much food they gave us?" Germaine said, placing a card down. A lamp flickered nearby, next to the largest pile of ration boxes this shack had ever held.

"Judson knows how to use guns. I've seen him. Maybe he can—"

"No, no he can't. Those things out there, you can't kill. Get that out of your mind right now."

Yu kept pacing, frowning slightly as she considered it.

"More food is nice, but Judson thinks they're going to get us dead. I think he might run away," she said.

He laid another card down. "Appreciate what you get. Your parents were skipping dinner so you could have yours. The Risen solved that for us. For a little while. We have to let them stay."

She stopped pacing to consider it, and looked up at the sheet metal ceiling. "I don't want to die."

"You won't," Germaine said. "Why don't you go see what your parents are up to? I'm a little beat."

"OK," she said, shrugging. She left.

Germaine opened a small box of water from the pile of ration packs and poured a tin-full. Yu hadn't noticed because it was difficult to see in the flickering lamplight, but his hands shook.

**

Judson's breath steamed in the night air as he shut the gate that bordered town as quietly as he could. Shivering would mean shaking the rickety thing and waking up Yu's family, so he kept the handle gripped tight as he pushed it back into place. He now stood on the pass out of Eaton Valley.

As he turned around, he walked right into Germaine.

"Didn't see you there, brother," Judson growled low, stopping just short of throwing an elbow into his neighbor's throat. He backed up a step. Just one.

"Where're you running to this late?" Germaine asked. "Brother."

"What are you, dense? Away from this before the shooting starts."

"We gotta trust this Lord Dryden knows what he's doing," Germaine said.

Judson shook his head. "You and all the deal-makers are gonna get this town dead. These guys are worse than the stories."

"You know how I feel about Risen, but they saved us this week."

Judson sneered. "No one ever believes it 'cuz Risen look like you and me, but they'll kill you without meaning to. Naturally as breathing. They can't help it."

"They're lookin' to jump one man. Just one. We gotta see this through. Even the Risen can contain a fight at that scale."

"You gonna move? Or do I move you?"

Germaine stepped to the side. "I'm not the law. But where you gonna go? There's nothin' but war-land out there. And their prey is comin'."

"I'm a tracker. Kept this town fed for years before you got here. I'll be fine. And that other Risen won't care about one man passing through. I got nothing to hide. Just need to get away. If you all want to play bait for the warring dead, have a nice life."

Germaine chuckled."What's funny?" Judson sneered in that low voice again.

"I don't know how you do it. I almost admire you."

"How's that?"

"You've got no fear. Have a nice life, brother. See you when I see you." Germaine walked back to the gate.

<|endoftext|>

Home, pt. III

"Who are you?"

"Would you know me if I gave you a name?"

"Your Ghost made a fatal error. Couldn't catch it, but I confirmed it on tracker."

"The hell is this? You think I'm one 'a you? Brother, you got another think comin'."

"How is it that I found one man all the way out here, then? No food or water for miles."

"I manage."

"I have ways to make you tell us what we want to know."

"..."

"The Warlord campaign in this region never reached into the southern valley. Are there any settlements you know of, nearby? Anything tucked away in the valley, or inside the mountain range? You could tell me, or I could start cutting."

"Might be you missed something."

"You're coming with me. I planned to scout the valley myself, but now I think I'll bring some friends."

**

Germaine's hands shook when the Warlords, Risen who conquered the land they found, brought Judson back to Eaton during midday a week later. Half the town came out to see them.

One of the men wore red armor that fit the description of the Warlord that Dryden and his Lords were waiting for.

They say that one Risen, reasonably armed, can annihilate an army. Two Risen, assuming adequate cover for Ghost support, can fight infinite armies indefinitely.

Six Warlords dismounted their machines in a line at the center of town, weapons drawn. They dropped Judson on his knees in front of them. No restraints. He looked unhurt.

"Does anyone want to claim this runt?" asked the Red Man.

"We will," Germaine said. People groaned. Yu tried to run to Judson, but her parents held her back.

"A question, first," said the Red Man. "Where are the Iron Lords? We saw one of their Ghosts. One of these?" He tapped the bladed carapace of his own drone companion as it floated past him, its eye fixed on the townspeople. "They like to meddle. Maybe they helped you, brought you some food? It would explain how you survive out here in this wasteland. But I can guarantee you their motivations are not in your best interest." The Red Man paused, scanned the crowd as his Ghost orbited above him.

"The Iron Lords are trying to disrupt the established order. And we're here to liberate you from them. You're under our care, now. So. Where are they?"

Germaine shut his eyes a long moment. When no one else spoke, he decided he would. "You're right. They were here. But they're long gone. We paid them for supplies and they moved on a week ago."

"Did they?" The Red Man raised his hand cannon and shot Yu's father in the head. The entire crowd flinched and huddled together as the man fell backward. Yu's mother cried out in fury, but held her child tight.

"Hand to my heart," Germaine said, holding his breath as he waited for the hidden Iron Lords to make a move. The Red Man held his gun in the air, watching the townspeople intently. The other Warlords scanned the horizon, gleaming weapons at the ready.

Judson took the pregnant pause as an opportunity to pull a Fallen shock blade from one of the Warlord machines. He gave a triumphant yell and decapitated the armored Risen closest to him. As the body fell, he jabbed the length of the blade through the Red Man's back. A third Warlord pulled the glaive out of Judson's hands and stabbed him in the side with a gauntlet blade, then hurled him backwards over the machines.

All hell broke loose around Germaine as the Iron Lords suddenly opened fire from their positions in the surrounding hills. The townspeople scattered as the fallen Warlords rose in scintillating pillars of Light, the weapons in their hands roaring to life and spitting tracers.

**

The Ghost watched from high above the chaos. Over the ages, it had gotten very good at hiding. It had gotten very good at all the peculiar things its chosen had asked it to learn.

Down below, gunfire and explosions of Light tore through the collection of huts and shacks. The townspeople fled for their lives in the midst of fire and otherworldly flame as the Iron Lords finally abandoned their sniper positions in the hills to close in on the Warlords at the town center.

Through it all, the Ghost saw one of the men emerge out of the discharge of an errant explosive device, cradling the body of a child. He moved to relative safety behind one of the shacks and knelt down, holding an ear to the child's face. She was trying to speak.

One of the armored riders in the town square raised a heavy machine gun in one hand and raked the length of Eaton with golden tracers. The Ghost lost visibility on the townspeople as the hail of machinegun fire filled its vantage point with a rolling cloud of dirt and dust.

The annihilating, sense-shattering explosions came soon after, and the Ghost increased its elevation.

It waited until long after the battle had died out, and the surviving Risen had all left, before lowering itself back to earth. It wasn't even sure which side had won. It didn't matter.

The day had turned to dusk.

<|endoftext|>

Home, pt. IV

The man opened his eyes and took an even breath. Almost nothing was where he remembered it. Eaton was gone. Blasted and paved. Mild climate was the only reason the shacks and huts that made up most of the town remained standing.

But the storm of Light versus Light had left scorched earth and shadows behind. And the bones of the dead. It was a blood red dusk. Ghost hovered above him.

The man looked down at his hands. He tried to chuckle, but coughed instead.

"Are you all right?" Ghost asked.

He stood up, straighter than he had in a long time. Easier to seem like people when you slouch.

"Germaine?" Ghost asked.

"That's not my name."

"You let them call you that."

The man turned to look at his Ghost. "It's not my name. One 'a the Warlords mentioned seeing a lone Ghost. Did you get sloppy?"

Ghost nodded. "I'm sorry. I was scouting a new livestock route for you and I got carried away."

"I don't ask for much," said the man, shaking his head. "Shovel. Get me one."

Ghost scanned the debris and ash to find a charred spade, lifting it with a lasso of Light.

The man slowly gathered all the bones he could find and began to dig.

"The child. Yu," Ghost continued.

"Stop talking," he replied.

"What did she tell you? You were speaking to her at the end."

He didn't respond. It would be lifetimes before he told Ghost the answer. But he would remember.

"You could have helped her."

The shovel hit the dirt harder. "I told you to shut up."

"You could have saved them all."

The man had nothing to say.

He must have been making more noise than he thought, because just as he finished digging a grave big enough for the bones, a voice called out. He dropped the shovel, stared across the vacant town square at the smoldering ruin of the Diaz barn.

Eaton was dead. No point in keeping his secret any longer.

He crossed the distance at a speed and ease that would have shocked his neighbors and rounded a corner to find Judson, on the ground, leaning against the barn door. There was a cannon in Judson's hand, and his eyes opened wide when he recognized the man and his Ghost.

Judson lifted the gun with a shaking fist. His other hand clutched a dark stain on his side.

"He's lost a lot of blood," Ghost said, its Light spilling across the scene.

"You were one 'a them all along," Judson sneered.

The man chuckled. "All my lives, brother."

"You got us killed, you son of a—"

The man kicked the firearm out of Judson's hand with no urgency at all. He knelt down to point a finger. "No, no, that one's on you. Those Warlords caught you. What else were they gonna do? I wanted to stop you from leaving, but I didn't think I had the right."

Judson reached out to grab his throat. The man caught his hand in a vice-grip instead, a crushing handshake. Judson frowned and struggled, but he was exhausted. Dying. And the man had strength that belied his frame.

The man lifted his other hand, smoldering from a Solar glow, and held it against Judson's wound. His former friend managed a high-pitched wail, but couldn't break the man's grip, though he tried and tried.

The man nodded at Judson, addressing his Ghost. "Do you see how he never gives up? Because he knows this one life is all he has? No fear."

"Those Risen out there?" The man finished cauterizing the wound and used his suddenly-cool hand to wave indiscriminately into the darkening night. "They'd be long dead if they were him. All they know is war. This man survives."

Judson made a gurgling sound. He had stopped struggling, but the man kept a grip on his hand.

"You wanted me to save him? Even if this works, he could never show me how to live. Not like he lives. And that's on you."

Ghost watched, but made minute adjustments to his orbiting armor and sent Light-based scans cascading across the ruins of town. If there were lingering Warlords or Iron Lords nearby, they would have to run.

The man stood up. Judson was dead.

"Maybe you should have told him you were bringing livestock in from a hundred leagues away and releasing them for him to catch," Ghost said.

"I mean—did you see how happy he was? How they all were? They got to eat," the man replied. "Give someone something to chase and you give them purpose."

"You're pathetic. This is what you aspire to be? A perennial liar who plays house with refugees? These people are dead because of us!"

"I lived here as one of them."

"You could be so much more. Let me show you how powerful your Light can become."

The man walked past his Ghost and brought Judson's corpse to the center of town. As he began digging again, he noticed the bloated, spherical husk that dominated the sky. It had been out of his life for a while, but it seemed a lot closer to earth tonight.

He raised a hand to salute it with a single finger, as Ghost looked on.

"How you livin'?" he said, and gave a smile to the heavens that ended at his eyes.

<|endoftext|>

Loose Ends, pt. I

"I never forgive and I never forget. I live a hard life, sister." —A Dark Age drifter


Wu Ming's bar wasn't always bustling, but it was this afternoon. Wu served anyone who could pay, but his clientele were often Risen. Not because he provided a menu particularly suited to them, but because he had built his bar at the foot of a mountain called Felwinter Peak.

Felwinter was a former Warlord—the only one, it was said, to hold an entire mountain all by himself. He now rode with the Iron Lords, and Felwinter Peak was staunchly the territory of the Iron Wolves. They had never given Wu permission to build the bar.

He had never asked.

Almost to a person, the patrons tonight were without Ghosts. High winds and inhospitable cold meant those without Ghosts rarely visited. But tonight, word had reached the general population that Warlords were back in the region. No shots had been fired. Not yet. But it was enough to get every poor, Lightless wretch from miles around into Wu's bar, where chances were an Iron Lord or Lady might be having a drink. Wu Ming didn't mind.

The door swung open again, and a trio of armored figures marched in from the cold. "Welcome to the End of the World," greeted the serving frame. The Warlords shouldered past the 55-30 and headed straight for Wu Ming at the counter.

"What can I get you?" Wu asked, giving a smile that ended at his eyes.

The leading Warlord, a hulking man with shoulder guards larger than his brain, grunted, "Food. Everything you have." 

Wu raised an eyebrow. "Sure. That'll be... well, a lotta Glimmer."

"You don't understand," the giant man said, grabbing Wu by the lapels of his stormcoat. "Give us everything you have in the back, or we'll gut you and eat you alive."

"Hey Citan," a woman's voice said. "Pick on someone your own size."

All eyes turned to a helmeted figure standing a few feet behind Citan. She only came up to the giant man's sternum.

"Lady Efrideet," Citan muttered.

Wu Ming's gaze went from the Iron Lady to the three Warlords positioned around the bar amongst his Lightless patrons. He cursed under his breath and braced to duck.

<|endoftext|>

Loose Ends, pt. II

Wu Ming looked on as the Warlords surrounded the lone Iron Lady.

"End of the World is Wolves territory," Efrideet was saying. "And so is the entirety of Felwinter Peak."

"That changes tonight." A crescent of Light arced between the Warlord's open hands. "I have an army of raiders and a fireteam of Risen waiting on my command. Felwinter's lost his mind siding with you lot."

Underneath the helm, Citan's eyes flickered from the Iron Lady to his Warlord ally positioned behind her. The flanking Warlord raised a massive hand cannon and thundered a bullet—

Directly into Citan's chest as Efrideet dropped to a knee. She swung her cannon to her right side with her left fist and let loose with a roaring double-tap behind her, shattering the rear Warlord's head. Wu Ming saw that she hadn't so much as looked.

The third Warlord's submachine weapon fired a spray of bullets that hammered the floor as Efrideet rolled. Wu cursed inwardly as wood splinters went flying all over the room. People screamed.

But it was already over. The third Warlord crumpled. Efrideet's solar knife had divided his head.

"Hold!" the Lady barked, firing her cannon into the ceiling as three Ghosts materialized above their charges. Bits of wood fell on her shoulder. Wu Ming cursed audibly this time.

"You know who I am," she shouted at the room. "At this distance, I could shoot all of you out of the air swifter than you could ever bring your Risen back."

The Traveler's children froze, their shells spinning aggressively in the air like metallic bees.

"You're free to go," she told them. "But your Risen stay with me. Follow the Iron Decree and you'll get them back. In time." The Ghosts looked at one another.

"Tell the Warlords," she sneered. "Felwinter Peak belongs to the Wolves."

The Ghosts left the way their owners came. The bar patrons began murmuring.

Efrideet's Ghost, always a quick thinker, started playing music: Lady Skorri singing an old hymn.

The patrons backed away from the three Warlord bodies, but began chattering amongst themselves. The din of conversation gradually filled the room and built to a dull roar. The music helped.

"Is this why you asked me here?" Efrideet said, holstering her weapon. "You said you had some business that paid."

"I did. You just finished it," he responded, reaching out with a fistful of Glimmer. The Iron Lady stared down at it, gawking beneath her helmet.

"Who the hell pays you?"

"I have means," Wu Ming said, chuckling. "Stick with me, sister. I'll make you rich. I promise."

She eagerly took the sapphire cubes out of his hand. Glimmer represented pure material potential.

"You didn't bring Felwinter," Wu said.

She eyed him. "I told you he never comes down from the Peak unless it's official Iron Lord business. What do you need from him?"

"Hey, what're you doing later?" Wu asked suddenly.

"Hunting Fallen. They're becoming a problem at Boyle Pass. We'll be at it 'til dusk," Efrideet said, lifting the helmet just above her mouth to grab a drink from behind the counter and swallow an entire mug of the malt Wu served. She belched and asked, "Care to join us?" Her smile just beneath the helm was all teeth.

Wu chuckled. "Nah, a mere mortal at a Risen fight? I'd just get in the way." He thought for a second. "Would you like to dance before you go?"

"Nah," she said, imitating his tone. The helm came down.

He cocked his head over the music, then leaned in to ask, "Wait, what did you think I said?"

"Would you like to dance before you go?" she repeated.

"I would love to," he said, stepping forward, arms wide.

She side-stepped him and kicked his leg out from under him. He went tumbling to the ground, and someone spilled their drink on him.

"I had to try," he called from the floor, watching her go. The plume of her helmet rose above the crowd, and was already halfway out the door. "Take the bodies!" he yelled, still on the ground.

**

It took him three hours to climb the Peak that night. He was shivering in his long coat, and if not for his Ghost, he would have succumbed to the cold long ago. Ghost was hidden, of course.

The massive castle doors were already open when he arrived at the top. An Exo, eyes glowing in its sleek black skull, stood just beyond them. It released whatever weapon it was reaching for inside its greatcoat when Wu Ming approached with his hands held high.

"I come in peace, brother."

<|endoftext|>

Loose Ends, pt. III

It wasn't much warmer inside, though Felwinter's Ghost had lit the fireplace for Wu. He sat across from the former Warlord, both of them in massive, gothic chairs.

"Who are you?" Felwinter spoke first.

"Your neighbor. I live downstairs, been trying to get your attention for a month," Wu Ming grinned.

"What do you want?"

Wu thought about it. "I heard you kill."

"A necessity of life in this post-Collapse existence."

"No, I'm talkin' Risen. Final-deaths. It's gotten real taboo recently. You Iron Lords are changin' things."

"Who are you? I don't believe you've been honest with me." Felwinter's voice echoed through the chamber.

Wu Ming leaned back and rubbed his temples. His hands shook.

Felwinter stared unblinking. Wu had the feeling the Exo would sit, frozen in time, until he said something.

"Ghost," Wu Ming beckoned. His only friend in the world materialized out of the air.

"Is that supposed to impress me?" Felwinter asked without a shred of irony. "How else would you have survived the climb?"

Wu coughed. Ghost shook its head at him.

"Let me ask again, then," Wu Ming said, straightening to his full posture in the stupid chair. "Will you break the Iron Decree? Will you kill for real?"

"As a Warlord, I did many things I'm not proud of. Under the Iron Lords, I adhere to strict rules of engagement," Felwinter said. His voice sounded hollow inside his armored skin. "Ghosts are not valid targets."

"I heard you care very much about right and wrong, and the delivery of justice to those who deserve it."

Felwinter's eyes glowed brighter.

"I can't think of a more human act," he said after a moment's pause.

"I don't know that anyone has a right to that. But I believe in revenge with all my heart. And I have a request, knowing that you do what you do."

Felwinter tapped his chin. "What are you asking me?"

Wu Ming told him a story about a long-forgotten town far away called Eaton, early in the age of Iron Lords. A Lord called Dryden had brought food for the town's starving people, but in return, asked to use them as bait to bring a local Warlord into position for an ambush. This, Wu had learned, went against the code set out by Lord Radegast, the founder of the order. Dryden had broken the rule of involving Lightless individuals in Iron Lord business, because it was those people the Lords had unified to protect. The town had agreed, of course. What choice did it have? But the ambush had gone horribly wrong. The Warlord target had brought a whole fireteam to the fight. Eaton's erasure was utter and complete. Though Wu later learned that Dryden won the battle, he lost every Lord under his command, Ghosts and all, and he committed the additional sin of inflicting final deaths on the Warlords he defeated, in an act of bloodlust and rage. In the intervening years, Wu had learned that Dryden kept this under wraps, and that he and his Ghost were now among the most decorated of Lords, next to the likes of rising champions like Lord Saladin and Lady Efrideet themselves.

Felwinter sat frozen in his chair. It was difficult to tell if he had registered any of what Wu Ming had said.

"How do I know you're not lying?" the hollow voice asked finally.

"I have live recordings," Wu replied. His Ghost transmitted a data stream to Felwinter's Ghost, who nodded.

"Eaton. Who were those people to you?"

"Nothing. Just ghosts."

"You want revenge for people you care nothing about?"

"Is the Darkhorse of Iron for hire?"

Felwinter stood, and politely motioned for Wu Ming to take his leave.

Wu sighed, shrugged, and left the chamber. He had a long climb ahead of him.

The Exo parted his coat and drew a long, bronze shotgun from his side.

"What do you think?" his Ghost asked.

"Call Lord Dryden. Prepare my Iron Banner arsenal."

<|endoftext|>

The Eternal Chain and the Other's Prize

You've earned the Word. Replicated the sickness. Proven yourself time and again. Yet another challenge remains. Not your last. Far from it. Simply another chapter in another story that will bind your legend to those that came before.

Rezyl sought to vanquish terrors. Yor fertilized the wilds with suffering and despair that a new hope would grow. I was that hope. My fire showed that whispers could be hushed. To many the legend, and the lesson, ends there. They're wrong. Dangerously so. Yor's true lesson—and by extension Rezyl's—wasn't that strength beats strength. His lesson was far more subtle, and infinitely more grand. Adversity leads to evolution. Forces it. And through that crucible we are remade. Better. Stronger. More than we were.

The Guardians of today are not gods. Nor where those who came before. We are all simply links on a chain reaching back to the dawn of time, and forward to the end of existence. Each link gaining strength from the others. Each link stronger than the last. Just as I was "stronger" than Yor, you are stronger than me. The whole working to solidify the parts and growing sturdier as the harsh truths of reality stretch and strain to break us—to break the chain, sever our individual links.

But our chain shall never break, because warriors like you and I are not so proud as to forsake our past. We learn from it, grow from it. It is the foundation upon which we build each victory. It is the catalyst for our change. And here, now, I offer you the chance to spark a new evolution—the next hallmark in our betterment, the next leap forward in our war against extinction.

I've held this jagged weapon since that faithful day on Dwindler's Ridge. Kept it hidden away. Kept its secrets, kept its nightmares locked away where none could hear—none could be tempted. It's quiet now, except a low murmur, but its sickness remains. There were countless times I thought to destroy it—remove its threat from the playing field. But I knew it held a greater purpose, and I believe that purpose can be found and fulfilled in your hands.

The Hive use untold methods to destroy us. The Weapons of Sorrow are but one. The fate of this wicked tool is in your hands now. Will you allow sorrow to linger—a festering threat waiting to consume all who are tempted by its power? Or will you forge a new road? Will you show the Hive and every Guardian who follows in your wake that sorrow does not guide us? I leave those questions for you to ponder, but I know what I believe.

We are better than our deepest fears.

We are ever and truly…

Weapons of Light.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

Elegy for Callum Sol and Callum's Refrain

Elegy for Callum Sol


Cull: Are you sure?

Vale: Never more.

Cull: I'm not questioning the plan. Just… Will it work?

Vale: The temptation must go further. We've baited the hook with dark imaginings, but to truly gauge the ill-intent of those hiding behind the Light, we have to give them a clear path toward their darkest desires.

Cull: And those who veer? Those who join my mad crusade?

Vale: We do as your namesake suggests.

Cull: Thin the herd.

Vale: Excise the weak few that the whole may grow stronger.

Cull: What if more join than intended? What if such vile messages speak to the fear that grips us all? Hate is easily sowed among a people on the brink.

Vale: It's not the people we seek to judge. It is their protectors. We do this for the people. For the future.

Cull: Not mine.

Vale: Funny.

Cull: Gotta get the jokes in while I can. Soon as I break rank it's all gloom and doom.

Vale: You will become the darkest Shadow—the very thing they fear we will all become.

Cull: And the Vanguard… They approve?

Vale: No. They say this playacting will foster genuine hatred.

Cull: They don't know what you ask of me.

Vale: And they never will.

Cull: I'll be a villain.

Vale: Only to those who do not truly matter.


***

Callum's Refrain


Callum: I have tossed aside all I once held dear and returned to the purity of self. We do not need titles torn from dead fables. We are, and have always been, who we are. Hated. Feared. Lost. Broken. Dredgen Yor did not make us. Orsa and his fools would have us believe we walk in the footsteps of truest, pure sorrow. I say my sorrow equals that of Yor. I say it transcends. I say we are the future, and the future does not wait for failures resting as ash in a field on some lonely, forgotten ridge. The Book says we must be unmade, not remade, not evolved, not improved. Unmade. To achieve such glories, we must start with ourselves. We must look into the abyss, naked and unafraid of its judgment against our many human weaknesses. But Orsa knows this. As did Bane and the others. They fear true judgment. They would hide behind their interpretations of Yor's ancient texts. Seeking understanding as a means to delay what must be done. No more gambits. No more posturing. No more running from a lone man with a Golden Gun. Malphur is not a worthy foe; he is an excuse. No longer. From this moment on, we—those few brave enough to heed my words—will walk a straight line toward the abyss. We will end all who would change our course.

Gathering: [cheers]

<|endoftext|>

The Liar's Trap

The Gambit paid off. In more ways than one. The Guardians who joined in the Drifter's games have proven to be the perfect guinea pigs to demonstrate a larger point—the shadows of dark power that tempt us are not inherently evil. In fact, they are simply another tool to be used if we hope to bend the unknown to our will, an impossible feat we must learn to master if we wish to push back the ever-aggressive tide of extinction.

Azzir knew this. Long ago. Long before anyone else, he saw the path forward; he simply didn't understand it. His courage and strength clouded the dangers of the path he tread. The path we now walk. The difference being we have Azzir's folly to guide us. We can, and have, learned from his mistakes. That some level of deceit was needed to further my goal of seeing Azzir's path to the end is... unfortunate. But necessary.

The stage set by the foul sport the Drifter has crafted has given many Guardians the confidence they need to see the shadows for what they are without losing their way or tainting their Light. This was Azzir's gravest mistake. He plunged freely into the abyss thinking his will alone could fend off the whispers and the corruption. But alone we all fall. Only together can we thrive in light... and dark.

Which leads to the other need addressed by Gambit's promise. Those Guardians who would give freely of themselves and seek not only power in the shadows, but comfort. Purpose. They have been drawn out and addressed. Some with force and, sadly, an end. Others quickly forfeit their troubling ambitions when faced with the dire truth of the journey they'd begun.

In the end, many Shadows have fallen. But they have all been false prophets, lost souls who would have fallen to despair sooner or later. Best to tempt them here and now in a manner we can control and correct than to allow the weak-willed to fester within our ranks.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

The Darkest Shadow

Vale: Have you seen?

Bane: Callum?

Vale: Yes. He's shed his dark name and preaches our weakness. Paints us as cowards.

Bane: He is a preacher born. New members flock to his twisted doctrine daily.

Vale: More than I'd hoped.

Bane: So many fought to "earn" the title Dredgen, only to throw it away when they found a voice that truly spoke to their anger and fear.

Vale: Are you surprised?

Bane: Not in the least. Disappointed, maybe. But surprised that the ignorant who fall under the thrall of any who stoked their hatred would be so easily swayed? Never. After all, was that our intent? Isn't this why Callum has taken this burden upon himself?

Vale: It is. The division is becoming clear. As our numbers grow, more join Callum. As we gun them down, still more take up arms. The weak are being culled, as intended.

<|endoftext|>

A New Legend to Guide Them

Do you see your role in all of this? Can you understand the importance of your deeds? The Hero of the Red War. The judge, jury, and executioner of the Scorned Barons. Your legend has only grown since your revival. So many challenges faced. So many obstacles overcome. It is you who must now show the rest—every Guardian, every warrior, every huddled, hopeful, broken soul—that we are ready to face any threat. And to do so, we must be willing and able to become masters of the Light and the Dark.

This isn't to say we must give ourselves freely to the shadows. Far from it, and quite the opposite. We must instead bend those shadows to our will. Infuse them with Light such that their sickness dims, but their power remains. And when they writhe and hiss and refuse to be bound to our resolve, we will see them destroyed until all that remains are those powers that will be honed and controlled, and those that will be eradicated in the wake of our advance, from the brink of annihilation to our inevitable reclamation of this system and the stars beyond.

It is you who must be the guiding light. It is you—the best of us.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

The Culling

Vale: It is time.

Callum: I am ready.

Vale: You cannot return from this.

Callum: Yeah. That was the deal.

Vale: And you go forth with no regrets?

Callum: We have riled the foolish and set the trap. If my end is the means by which we can ensure a generation of those whom the shadows would corrupt are removed from the playing field, then my end is welcome.

Vale: Braver words have never been spoken.

Callum: And Paola?

Vale: Your Ghost understands as well as you. She is safe now, with Bane, given a new shell and… sad… but aware of what is at stake.

Callum: Whose Ghost was this?

Vale: Unknown. A dead thing wrapped in your familiar's carcass. Simply play your part, stab the thing, and when you are gone, I will plant the audio to set you as the martyr and myself as the villain.

Callum: And what if they discover Malphur and Orsa are one and the same?

Vale: They will not.

Callum: Then onward, right?

Vale: Ever.

Callum: It's been an honor.

Vale: The honor is now, has ever been, and will always be… mine.

Callum: Too kind. Go well, friend.

Vale: I will, brother. RTL.

<|endoftext|>

The Brilliance of Bloom

Rose was never any more special than any other weapon of its time. It didn't fire faster or hit harder. Its power came from the hands that held it. Azzir was a gifted destroyer, a rare and mighty defender. And much like far older legends, his deeds and manner, his weapons and journeys have taken on lives of their own. So too, in time, will yours. I don't know that he ever reflected on his legacy. Truth told, I'd imagine he never considered his own death until after becoming the other—until after becoming Yor. I often wonder if he was aware of the monster he began, or whether even in that twisted, dark, nightmarish form, he still saw himself as the noble warrior—the defending knight giving all of himself to protect his crumbling castle. It's possible Vincent knows, though I would never ask him. There is still a soft spot there, a pained longing for the friend he'd lost.

My point is, sometimes we are forced to become "other" as we make our way along our individual roads. You, however, have been true to yourself at every turn. Always facing forward. Always accepting the burden of impossible odds. Not because of glory, but because of necessity. A thing needed doing that we may all live to see another day, and so you did. Time and again. Your legend already spreads. But what you do next, as you conquer Light and shadow, will set us all on our way toward a future where generations will be fueled by your righteous might.

You are the bloom that will serve as inspiration for the stories used to bolster the courage of countless heroes to come. You are all I, and untold others, could never be.

A beacon. A champion. A true and honored Guardian.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

The Long Goodbye

I told you I was done once the Last Word was in your hands. But that letter, as with most things, was another test. I gave you all the guidance I could, and all the reassurance, but needed to see you acting upon all you have learned free of my direct hand. Sure, the Vanguard and your other allies, old and new, were around to aid you, but as always you forged a trail all your own, ever true to yourself, ever strong and defiant against the endless tide that threatens us all.

Your consistent heroism and ability to adapt your skills and aggression to face ever-evolving trials prove you worthy of my confidence. This is why I shared my truths with you—my journey, the Shadows, our purpose, our sins. When you sought Thorn, the hated yin to the Word's noble yang, I knew you were headed in a fateful direction that would see me and mine as nothing more than afterthoughts in the wars to come. That I may have served as a catalyst for even a sliver of your continued growth is an honor. All of my faith says you will be a linchpin in the building of a new world, one where absolutes cower to the might of compromise, where Light tempers dark and the dark opens new insight into the Light's many undiscovered gifts.

From this moment on, my closest allies and I will be gone. Our job is done. And, despite appearances, our purest intent was never as simple and mundane as to rile and endanger, though such tactics were needed. No, our task was always to find those, like yourself, who could further the meaning of what it means to be a Guardian and to push you forward in ways never before considered or allowed.

Part of me worries that you will hold some level of contempt for the manner in which I have chosen to work. The Vanguard certainly do, and they do not endorse it, though they abide it. They don't know everything the Shadows and I have done. It is better that they do not.

But know this—as clearly as you know anything—the means justify the ends and there is no part of me that regrets the choices I've made. The circumstances that have led us all here? Yes. There is a pain at the very heart of me that any of us must exist in this terrible world we have, in part crafted for ourselves, but know above all things: It is our enemies, those who have come from out of the black to hinder our every advance, who deserve our ire. They are wicked, and they are boundless in their villainy. I speak not only of the Hive or the Fallen, the Vex or the Cabal. There are enemies at every turn—including a small but growing faction of the champions you call brothers and sisters.

Be ever-mindful of the selfish and ill-prepared. They are few, but they are a constant among any group striving to better themselves, and they will drag you down into the abyss faster than any Taken horde or Red Army.

Good luck, Guardian. Hero. Friend. The true Shadows are no more—only myself, Grey, Maas, Pavic and Yasuul remain, and we take our leave of these wars. The rest—those guided by ignorance and fear—have been gunned down, and with your help, the hated name Dredgen has been reclaimed, worn now by heroes.

Do good, Guardian. Be brave.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

Final Whisper

And that is the all of it. A journey from nowhere to here, from my life to yours. It all started with Yor, but now the journey is yours. I never told anyone this, not even Teben, but the first whisper I heard was not aboard Yor's ship where we found his writings. Nor was it when we followed his path and resurrected our own diseased replicas of Thorn. The first whisper was on the Ridge, standing over his body. Just before I released the final two sun-baked charges into his limp, motionless body, there was a faint calling—wicked words in a hateful tongue. I've lived with those words every day and every night since. They were simple. They were quiet. And they were this...

"Nothing ends."

For the longest time I took them as a threat, as the abyss offering a promise that death had not been sated that day and that it would come, as it always has, for everyone and everything we know. But that would mean death is something to fear, that the natural order is our enemy. And then, years—decades—later I got to thinking. About Yor, but more importantly, about Azzir, and I came to a realization that doesn't have to be true to be my truth, and it is this...

Those words were not the abyss. They were not a worm's whisper or a vile promise. Nor were they a threat. They were a warning. From Azzir to me. A fight had ended, but not THE fight. He was telling me, warning me, that a journey had ended, but many more were to come.

The same goes for you. Yor. Me. The Shadows. Thorn. The Last Word. In the wake of your legend, we will all be footnotes—afterthoughts, forgotten by most. And someday another will make the same of you. This is our purpose, this is our charge—to inspire those who would continue our efforts. So, go now. This chapter is over, but remember now, and remember always...

Nothing ends.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

Realis

The Undying Mind lies in the Garden, a ruin of metal given over to greenery, a barrow rising out of black soil rich with nitrogen and thought.

Everything in the Garden becomes of the Garden, eventually. Shed leaves decompose and fertilize the soil. So do the bones and unspoken ideas of everyone who couldn't find the end of the maze.

So do the wordless songs of the Vex gardeners.

They walk between the leaves, encouraging growth, laying down their bronze pathways, the only straight lines in all the Garden's tangles. The Vex weave themselves into the Garden, and the Garden returns the favor.

Harpies patrol in the air as Goblins do on the ground, their vanes wafting in the still air on their endless, untiring rounds.

The pathways lie dull against granite. No power runs through them, not since the Heart stopped beating. But the Vex of the Sol Divisive have programmed themselves to worship the Darkness. It has given them power before. And the Vex understand time: what has happened before is, somewhere, still always happening. What will happen is happening now.

Soil that lies fallow for a season will recover and produce again. Power that wanes will wax again, if the ground is ready for it.

The Harpies stop where they are, a shudder running through each of them in order from one end of the Garden to the other. A flicker. A wash of power, coming from somewhere distant.

A pulse.

The power it carries lights up the pathways. The Mind's eye blinks for a bare moment, under its blanket of lichen.

The power passes through the Garden, overruns the Vex machinery within it, floods the network beyond it.

A moment held, like the shore after the tide rushes out.

Motes of something that isn't dust shake in the air.

The bronze pathways hum, a counterpoint to the Goblins' song. And the Garden's door vibrates with them.

<|endoftext|>

Mirative

He's had this hallucination before.

It's not that good, as hallucinations go: Praedyth's radio is talking to him, voices rising out of the static. He wishes it'd at least use a familiar voice, a Pahanin or Taeko or Kabr. He'd even take a Mir at this point.

He turns his head toward the radio. His cheek scrapes against granite. It hurts vaguely, the same way everything does, muffled by too much time and not enough Light.

"You said that already," he tells the hallucination, helpfully.

It squawks, "I did? When?"

"Last time." Or the time before. Chronology is a lost art in this cell. "Alert, spelunkers contact band two-two-seven dot nine-seven, something something, Skyshock potential…"

His voice fades. It hurts to talk.

"Say again?" The hallucination has a new voice this time, sharper, male. Nearly Mir-ish. "The band number?"

Praedyth rolls back over to face the ceiling, blank as always. He sighs. He's catalogued constellations in its speckles, cats and Ghosts and a squid or two.

"Excuse me? Whoever you are?" The first voice is back. "We're calling from band two-two-seven dot one-seven. If you were contacted by another two-two-seven group, we really need to know."

"You said that last time, too."

A third voice interrupts. "Did the other group use this radio frequency?"

They did. Praedyth hasn't had the strength for fiddling with his radio lately, in new attempts to contact the world outside this cell. Hasn't had the strength for much but counting off meaningless intervals of time, waiting for the next window to chance a message.

"We've tried this frequency at least a dozen times over the past month. It's never worked before."

Then what's changed?

The question shakes him out of his torpor.

Praedyth sits up, a wave of nausea following, and he repeats the question out loud.

Maybe it's not a hallucination. Maybe he's finally breached the walls of the Vault somehow. Maybe he has a chance.

"Hello? Are you still there?"

All he gets back is a wash of static. Whatever signal he was picking up, it's gone.

<|endoftext|>

Gnomic

He is he is not he is walking in the Garden. He is talking silent singing.

^K^KV^V^V^V^V

(Watch your six don't worry about me grow grow grow)

He holsters his gun to gesture he holsters his gun to drink his gun is rusted into its holster and he will never pull it out again.

(How bad can it be how bad can it be how can we grow grow grow)

A Titan is a Wall a Shield a Cup filling itself to overflowing. The container changes the shape of its contents but the contents change the nature of the container and the nature is eternity.

(Who knows what's listening it's listening it's saying grow grow grow)

There is a shape that is his mind and the shape is protect the shape is sacrifice the shape is (grow)

^V^V^V^V^V

He was named too well he is his own grave and the cut on his left hand will never heal.

<|endoftext|>

Epistemic

Praedyth has watched from his cell for longer than he knows how to quantify, sitting inside, looking out.

He's seen so many different timelines. There's no way to know which are real.

From a certain point of view, they might all be.

Some things he recognizes. He sees the Traveler often, though he can't feel its Light through the bars of his cage. Sometimes it hangs over a city so familiar it makes his heart ache. Sometimes it hangs in an alien sky, and foreign shapes make airy loops around it—Ghosts of unrecognizable make.

Some visions he gets once, while some come back over and over again. One recurring image: a piece of the Traveler cracked off from its body, lying belly-up in a forest, with a small figure standing in front of it. The figure changes every time, but the sickly glow of the Traveler doesn't.

Once, he sees a vision of himself. Straight-shouldered, warm in the Martian sun, standing between Kabr and Pahanin. Kabr's helmet is familiar; it's one Praedyth helped make. He was a defter hand with spinfoil lamination than Kabr ever was. Kabr had worn that helmet barely five years into their life as a fireteam, worn it for six straight months, till he cracked it in half in the Crucible. That vision makes Praedyth weep—desiccated as he is, he didn't think he had it in him.

The Vault shows him Mercury again and again, recognizable only thanks to the scale of the sun in the sky. Sometimes there's rubble hanging in space, a planetary ring still forming. Sometimes there's nothing but rubble, and when he turns, he doesn't see any of the other planets in the system. Gone, somehow, eaten down to the crumbs.

Praedyth wouldn't mind those visions so much if he could only feel the warmth of that colossal sun. His hands are always cold, here in the Vault.

He sees waves of aliens cross the solar system's threshold, emerging into the light from outside the heliopause. Some of them travel with the air of eager, conquering armies, paint fresh and banners snapping. Some of them move as if they're on the run from something behind them, out in the galactic dark.

He watches the movements of the Vex. He learns to tell them apart: the shining silver ones, the brass ones with backswept horns, the ones with eyes glowing white. Occasionally, scattered among them are pockets of Vex stained with verdigris, their arms trailing shawls of moss. All the other Vex keep away from those ones. Twice, he's seen other Vex fight the mossy ones. It looks like the other Vex are frightened of them, as much as Vex can be.

Some timelines have veils drawn over them, a darkness too thick to see through. They push back against Praedyth's sight, resisting.

All the timelines he sees could be true for some living thing. He doesn't know which are true for him. He doesn't know if that's a meaningful question to ask.

He asks it anyway, and he keeps looking. There's no reason not to.

He's got all the time in the world.

<|endoftext|>

Deontic

The pulses are stabilizing. The voices come often enough now that Praedyth has been introduced to their owners: Sundaresh, Esi, Shim, and Duane-McNiadh. Not infinite mirrored variations of them from different timelines, but simulations all split off the same base, way back in what must have been the Golden Age. Some have grown far different from their progenitors.

Some have not.

"We have to base the modifications on the ansible system," one Duane-McNiadh says. He's either from 227.13 or 227.204. The voices have been bickering in his ear for what feels like hours.

"The ansible is a thought experiment! It was proved impossible!" says another. Some people, Praedyth has heard, are their own worst enemy. In the case of Duane-McNiadh, this might be right.

"An impossible machine could be the only solution to getting us out of an impossible prison—"

"So how do you propose to build it?"

Finally, a decent question. Praedyth jumps in. "What materials would we need, hypothetically? We're limited by what I've got with me."

He's in contact with six groups of them, all based in Vex network systems near Venus. They must be within ambit of the Vault's entrance, whatever that means. There are more of them further out both in the solar system and in the Vex information networks: up to two hundred and twenty-one more, apparently. There must be a way to contact them too, to use whatever let them connect with him and go even further, till they can figure out why now and what's happening. What the Vex are doing.

"What do you have with you?" That's Maya, Dr. Sundaresh. Brisk. The others listen to her when she speaks.

He has three guns, two disassembled down to their casings for parts. Two boxes of physical ammo and one of Omolon energy cells he's been using to power his radio. He stripped his armor down long ago; he made a comm unit from his helmet and pulled fine coils of wire from the conductive pads on his gauntlets and steel plating from his boots. In his pockets, he's got lint and the wrapper from a candy Pahanin tossed at his head half an hour before they entered the Vault. It's worn soft and folded into the shape of a crane. No Ghost. Her loss is one thing he has never gotten used to after all this time in the Vault; he still wakes up some days expecting the small weight of her on his shoulder.

"Anything to etch circuitry with?"

"If you give me ten minutes." He's got a laser pointer and the focusing crystal out of his Omolon rifle.

While he works, all of the Chiomas hold their own discussion.

"If Praedyth exists physically, even if the space he's in isn't strictly real, he has accesses we don't. And vice versa. Maybe together we can get something to work."

"If you believe his story about the Traveler," one of them says, doubtful—227.18's Chioma, more skeptical than the others.

"I've believed weirder," another one of them says cheerfully. She pauses and adds, "Do you remember the first thing we saw the Vex do?"

"Go for Maya's throat?"

"No—jump into that frame. Clear through the air."

Six Chiomas rattle their fingers against their radios in unintentional polyphony, thinking.

"Think we're close enough to Vex at this point to use one of their tricks?"

227.18's Chioma turns wry. "What's a little more tightrope walking between friends?"

Praedyth lifts his head from his former laser pointer.

"How much of a chance does this actually have of working?" This was Shim, usually the quietest one.

"Oh, negligible. But it's better than chasing after tech disproved centuries ago."

Praedyth doesn't have enough scavenged parts for both trials. It's one or the other, a choice they can't undo.

They take a vote; Praedyth marks the tally with screws on two adjacent flagstones.

227.18's Chioma gives the first aye.

It's unanimous.

They're taking the leap.

<|endoftext|>

Atelic

Describe time. No, really, give it a go.

You're going to say something about a sequence of events, aren't you? Seconds sliced off a clock, marching one by one off into infinity. Go ahead, use your metaphors: A line. A loop. A flat circle. Heard someone say time was like water once. At least that was novel.

The Vex, they're the closest to understanding it. They've got distance from it. If time's a river, then we're fish and they're diving birds. What's wet mean to a fish? What's it mean to an osprey, who's never fooled by refraction on the water's surface?

Hold on now, you're gonna say. This is getting a bit abstract, even for the bodiless echo of a dead guy in the Garden. You want concrete truths? Something simple, digestible? A story to keep the dark out?

You want time to be a staircase we keep climbing forever. But hey, even a Guardian skips back a step or two now and then. Die with your Ghost in range, and it'll just pop you back to before that bullet, give you the chance to make a fate you like better. Nothing's been simple on Earth since that big white cue ball rolled in from the next neighborhood over. And the stories, they don't work too well as a night-light anymore.

You're going to say, but the Traveler is our friend, the Traveler likes us, it gave us a Golden Age and garden worlds and Guardians. You're going to say, you wouldn't be alive without it, mister big shot.

Without it, I wouldn't be stuck in the Black Garden making bets with myself on which Goblin's going to be the next to slip on a soggy leaf and fall off a cliff, either. You took my Light already; you'd better take my advice.

I know the Void's still calling. But I've come untethered—I can't reach it any more. So, if I'm right that I can reach you, you keep your ears open. I don't care how much you hate hearing it. This is important.

The Vex understand time in a way we never will. Doesn't matter how long I spend here watching them. Doesn't matter how many jury-rigged portals Guardians fling themselves through. We live in time. They use it as a tool. Any moment that's ever happened, any moment that will ever happen, they can go back to it. Play it again till they get it right. Simulate it.

The Light's a counter to that. They come back, a Guardian comes back. They simulate an ending, a Guardian tears through it. Stalemate.

But the Vex in the Garden? They bend the knee to the Garden's Heart. It gave them power till you got lucky. The Vex outside, they made a different calculation. They run. But the Vex inside make the same deal you make, every day of your unnatural life. And who's to say that deal won't start paying off for them again sometime soon?

You can't understand the Vex, and you don't want to understand the Heart. But is your ignorance any more forgivable when it's willful?

Lots of questions and not a lot of answers. Better take care, or you'll drown in 'em, surely as you'll drown in time, whether it's anything like a river or not.

You see?

<|endoftext|>

Jussive

The pulses from outside the Vault come quicker now. More copies of the Ishtar Collective team arrive, using them for a boost, leapfrogging in from the dark.

Their messages are getting out there, out to the ends of the Vex networks.

The pulses are getting strong enough that Shim thinks they have a chance to boost data even beyond the network to physical reality—whatever "physical reality" means to them and to Praedyth at this point, lifetimes deep in Vex projections.

Praedyth is attuned to the rhythm of the Vault; when another pulse lines up with that momentary weakness that lets his radio work, he pushes a message through.

It doesn't bounce back. It has gone through. He whoops raggedly; a dozen Ishtar Collective scientists return the cheer.

They start to send messages scattershot, wherever they can, whenever the pulses climb high enough to boost their signal. That works for a while. Then the pulses get too strong, strong enough to destroy the integrity of the messages. Instead of skimming along the top, riding the wave, the messages tumble through it and shake apart under its power.

If they're getting strong enough to unravel data, it could be they're getting strong enough to carry something heavier than a pile of code.

It's worth a try, Praedyth thinks. Anything is, at this point. Something is coming, a tidal wave's shadow looming over every timeline he can see. Its peak rises sharp over the Earth, breaking the terminator's arc with a deeper darkness. The City can't escape it.

Praedyth carves messages into the last functional pieces of his gear: anything that can serve as a bottle for his messages, thrown out on time's ocean. And what does a Guardian pay more attention to than their equipment? They'll catch someone's eye, somewhen.

He knows the wave is coming. More visions flicker past him now, burning afterimages into his eyelids. More timelines—a possibility or eventuality, he doesn't know—lost to the encroaching dark.

He knows they won't be able to handle it alone. He knows they need a warning. They need to know it's coming.

Soon.

<|endoftext|>

Volitive

227.97

Here's how it goes: you and Maya and Shim and Duane-McNiadh take your first cautious, sliding steps out into the Vex information network. You get your footing. You've got to translate everything into metaphor to understand it, here, and this is like tightrope walking on a greased line. You and Maya lean into each other. Shim slips, and you help him up. You explore. You go on.

227.3

Here's how it goes: you and Maya and Shim and Duane-McNiadh take your first cautious steps out into the Vex information network. You've got to translate everything into metaphor to understand it, here, and this is like doing a Fourier transform on yourself down the blade of a sundial. You fumble a step, and Shim and Duane-McNiadh hoist you back up between them. You come up with a pair of skinned knees, but it's fine. You explore. You go on.

227.218

Here's how it goes: you all take your first confident steps out into the Vex information network. Maya says it feels like trying to get down a mountain on a surfboard. Duane-McNiadh makes grim pronouncements about avalanches, but he does this from a step ahead of you. You're all eager to get started.

You come to a place that's a simulation of a world you don't recognize—hills rolling with grain that's just faintly iridescent, the color of their stalks an echo of the purple sky. Something in the distance calls out—a bird, maybe. Something that might be the Traveler lies on the distant horizon, a moon-sized eggshell discarded on the ground. It's spiderwebbed with cracks. No light emerges from them.

Duane-McNiadh walks too quickly, not testing the ground. He's gone before you can blink—fallen through an unseen edge of the simulation. When you move to where he disappeared, tilting your head at a certain angle makes the world give itself over to empty black with glowing wireframe edges that don't do anything to illuminate it. Tilt your head back, and there's nothing but purple wheat and the far-off call of an unknown bird.

"We have to go after him," says Maya, "we can't just leave him—"

You're all still shocked, faces drawn. Shim bends for a rock, squints, and tosses the stone underhand at the edge of the simulation. It disappears before it can hit the peak of its arc. He shakes his head.

You and Maya repeat the experiment, heads cocked like nervy sparrows. When your rocks hit void, they disintegrate first into wireframe and then into that black nothingness.

You retreat. You put up a marker at the rise of a hill, for all the good it'll do. You mourn. You go on.

227.7

You lose Shim.

227.33

You lose Duane-McNiadh.

227.200

The four of you cobble a radio together to contact the other teams. Every night, when you stop to rest, you click through the channels, hoping another team has had the same idea. On a cliff made of glass, topped with a thin layer of sandy earth and a thinner layer of grass, you get a response that's nearly intelligible.

You rest the next night at a seashore under the glass cliff. You wake up before dawn at the sound of screaming. You don't have time to find out what's happening before it happens, very finally, to you.

227.72

You lose Maya.

227.41

You lose Maya.

227.59

You lose Maya. 

You mourn. The thought of all the other Mayas out there doesn't help. They weren't the Maya you'd puzzled with over living basalt flowers, a world with seventeen moons, a continent that Shim had sworn up and down was sixteenth-century Australia and that Duane-McNiadh couldn't be dissuaded from calling Pangaea. You'd found a simulation with a city where you discovered a jewelry store, picked out a necklace, brought it home to her, and wished her a happy pseudo anniversary.

Maya didn't like bracelets, said they always fouled her work. Her hair had been getting shaggy again and was due for a trim. She could never decide whether or not to grow it out. She laughed at you lifting weights to maintain simulated muscle, but she spotted for you all the same.

There are other Mayas out there, layers of them, all the way up to the original, wherever she is. You hope they're doing well. But that doesn't stop you from missing this Maya, missing whatever arguments and discoveries you'd have shared in the rest of the lifetime you'd promised to one another.

Shim and Duane-McNiadh pull you up from beside Maya's marker. A basalt lily rests on top of it, petals thin enough to let light through.

You go on.

<|endoftext|>

Irrealis

The Garden wakes, and the Undying Mind wakes with it. It rises from the barrow that's grown up around it, shedding vines and hanging moss like bedsheets.

Circuits flood with power, pass the excess along to the next in line, flex massive limbs in boot sequences. Goblins write more circuits and weld them to the Mind, building it up to take advantage of the power—not an occasional pulse now, but a steady hum. Their faith has been rewarded.

In the Vault, one hundred and eighty-three sets of simulated Golden Age scientists flex their own limbs, ready to make a break for it. Praedyth, kneeling at his radio, shakes out his hands. They're stiff—he's stiff, queasy with exertion and worry and a stack of lifetimes in a cell—but ready.

"How big is a transistor compared to a pin, do you know?" He can't tell which Maya is speaking. There are one hundred and sixty-five of her spread between the teams.

"Are you calling me an angel?" This is Chioma, amused. Praedyth knows which team it is now: 227.72's Chioma sounds hoarser than the others. He doesn't know why.

Maya again: "Would you like to dance?"

Duane-McNiadh snorts in hundred-part harmony, and eighty Shims grin and elbow him in the metaphorical ribs.

It's a slim chance. But a chance is all they need.

The Garden's massive door hums, an echo of the song the Goblins sing as they tend the flowers. The first Minotaur readies itself to step through, shield coming awake around it.

Everything that has happened is, from a certain point of view, always happening. Everything that will happen is happening. If you know how to slice the ribbon of chronology thin enough, you can step through to the necessary moment. If you know how to tear it…

A hundred and sixty Mayas reach for the Chiomas by their side. A hundred and fifty-eight Chiomas reach back.

One Praedyth, waiting for the conductor's baton to drop. Uncountable Vex in the Garden, waiting for the same event, a synchrony none of them notice.

Somewhere, a veil is always lifting.

Somewhere, Kabr is always dooming himself.

Somewhere, a door is always opening.

Somewhere, they are always stepping through.

<|endoftext|>

Moon Mining

RECORD: 0303K785$LUN-0.024
IDENTITIES: [SCRUBBED]
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 3
THREAT DETECT: Level 7, 10—Unauthorized Cognizance, Protocol Incompliance
THREAT RESPONSE: [SCRUBBED]
SCRUB REQUEST: Commander Kuang Xuan
SCRUB RESPONSE: Accepted


"That's it. That's the dig order. Clovis Bray has left the building."

"Finally. Now let's get to work."

"Wait. You can't just start like that."

"What?"

"Come on. Don't you see how momentous this is? Can't you feel it? We're on the Moon mining for what might be—"

"Above my pay grade. I dig. You dig. Let's dig."

"Slow down! Listen. A science only just discovered and a source on that wavelength or whatever is buried in the crust of the Moon. There's a whole other mission serving as a cover story! This is huge!"

"Just another day at the office."

"On the Moon..."

"Yep. On the Moon. Now come on. Get your gear and mount up."

"What's the hurry? It's just another day at the office."

"Nobody remembers the second guy to walk on the Moon."

"I do."

"Huh?"

"The second guy to walk on the Moon. I can name them all. First was—"

"Okay. Fine. You made your point. Would you get your gear on?"

"You do feel it."

"Fine. Yeah. Just don't make me think about it too much, okay? We've got a lot of work to do."

"All right, Apollo. Whatever you say."

"Huh? I told you no nicknames. Now let's get moving."

<|endoftext|>

The Discovery

RECORD: 6782W671$LUN-0.167
IDENTITIES: Dr. Tanis Lee, Commander Kuang Xuan, Captain Hou Ye [present, unspeaking] 
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 2, Communion, Command Center
THREAT DETECT: Level 10—Protocol Incompliance
THREAT RESPONSE: Record for Posterity
   [REVISED RESPONSE]: Exhibit Record 12, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"Commander, we found it."

"Where?"

"Nearly twelve hundred meters deep in Site 3. The readings were all over the charts like in the other dig sites, but the borer broke into a tunnel and… Well, we almost hit it with the borer. The machine chewed through a pillar or something that held it up, and—" 

"It? So what is it? What does it look like? Show me the feed, the diagnostics, everything." 

"I don't have any of that." 

"What?"

"That's why I'm here. Instruments failed the moment we broke through. The borer too."

"Some sort of EMP? But your suits—"

"Worked just fine. We checked and rechecked everything." 

"So what is this thing?"

"Nothing like what I expected. You have to see it for yourself."

"I think I do."

"I'll help you get your suit on."

<|endoftext|>

Noetic Effects

RECORD: 8796T563$LUN-0.324 [RECUSAL MIRROR RECORD]
IDENTITIES: Dr. Wade Bow, Commander Kuang Xuan
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 4, Logistics, Infirmary
THREAT DETECT: Level 8, 9—Possible Psychosis, Crew Impairment
THREAT RESPONSE: Forward for Medical Review
   [REVISED RESPONSE]: Exhibit Record 456, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"I've completed the report, Commander. You can read it for yourself, but I think we both understand the gravity of the situation."

"I will read it—and share a sitrep with the board next quarter—but a summary of principle findings wouldn't be out of order."

"[yawn] Excuse me. I need to get some rest. Well, I can't explain the mechanism, but tests show neurochemical cascades increasing in frequency and severity over time. Individuals differ in their expression, but there's a clear trend when examined in the aggregate. Approximately eighty percent of the K1 crew is suffering similarly: intrusive thoughts, insomnia, narcolepsy, nightmares, and in the worst cases—as we saw with Helsha Rell—hallucinations, auditory and visual. It's a threat to the project."

"And the twenty percent?"

"Individuals who've yet to be exposed. And yes, before you ask, I did witness the effect in action. I took the levels on an unexposed technician, Keleen Vance, and reexamined them after just an hour with it. Despite no outward changes of behavior, there was a marked drop in her serotonin and a commensurate rise in cortisol. After a week of work at Site 3, she was requesting sedatives as a sleep aid. Now she wants something stronger. Something to knock her out."

"Does your report include any recommendations?"

"Only my best guess: Restrict direct exposure to thirty minutes per day, rotate teams between sites each week to limit proximity. And we need to plan for attrition. People need to get off this rock or they'll go crazy. Heck, I'm near the breaking point, and I'm supposed to help everyone else."

"I think you're right. You do need a break. Come with me when I head back to Earth for my next quarterly. We can come up with a plan for who will replace you in the coming days."

"Fine. [yawns] Fine. And my recommendations?"

"I'll review the report, and we'll implement them. The rotation between sites will cause difficulty, but we'll do what we must to keep the crew fit."

<|endoftext|>

The Deep-Space Signal

RECORD: 9046G766$LUN-0.346 [RECUSAL MIRROR RECORD]
IDENTITIES: Mike Loftus, Liam Yan 
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 3, Anomaly Observation
THREAT DETECT: Level 5—Possible Exotic
THREAT RESPONSE: Record for Posterity
   [REVISED RESPONSE]: Exhibit Record 501, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"Here. Listen to this."

"We've been listening to it for the last two hours. I just needed a break."

"No, I know. But you really need to hear this."

"Fine. Shift is almost over anyway. Might as well suckle the last of that sweet nightmare milk."

SILENCE//00:01:37

"So?"

"Yup."

"That's it? Yup?"

"Yeah. It's a new pattern. That seemed super interesting two hours ago, but it got old. I am bored, and I am tired. And when our shift is over, I probably won't be able to sleep until two hours before I have to get up and do it all over again."

"Look at where the signal is coming from."

"What do you mean? It's right in front of us."

"Check the ambit on the PQZ."

"That's weird."

"Uh huh."

"So it's an echo?"

"Well the pattern repeats. First from here. And then from out there."

"So you think it's bouncing the signal off something outside the system? You're crazy."

"I'm not. Also, this kind of signal doesn't bounce. What can it hit between phasic realities?"

"Nothing…" [whistles]

"Still eager for your shift to end?"

AI-COM/FRWL//EXPOSURE LIMIT REACHED. EXIT OBSERVATION.

<|endoftext|>

Detached

RECORD: 8796T563$LUN-0.279 [RECUSAL MIRROR RECORD]
IDENTITIES: Commander Kuang Xuan, Aeronautics of China Board (President Yang Lyn, General Han Wanwei, [CORRUPTED]
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 2, Communion, Command Center
THREAT DETECT: None—All Parties Level 1 Clearance 
   [REVISED DETECT]: Level 4—Psychosis [Dangerous]
THREAT RESPONSE: Record for Posterity
   [REVISED RESPONSE]: Exhibit Record 22, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN
SCRUB REQUEST: Commander Kuang Xuan
SCRUB RESPONSE: Accepted
DELETION REQUEST: Commander Kuang Xuan
DELETION RESPONSE: DELETE ALL


[CORRUPTED] "—and so we maintain the exobotany work, but there will be no further communication between that First Light team and the K1 project. Furthermore, communication of this sort ends. I'll come and deliver progress reports in person."

"I don't think I need to tell you this, but this is highly unusual, Commander Kuang. Surely our normal security protocols are sufficient."

"Yes, and normally I'd agree. So would our friends at Clovis Bray, I'm sure."

"You accuse Clovis Bray of… what? Monitoring our communications? Do you think they are listening right now?"

[Murmurs and laughter]

"I can't tell you what Clovis Bray did when they assisted in setting up this mission. But, I can tell you what I would have recommended to the board if Clovis Bray had been in the position of asking us for help putting a project together."

"I see… But you still haven't explained—" [CORRUPTED]

[CORRUPTED]
[CORRUPTED] 
[SCRUBBED] 
[SCRUBBED]
[CORRUPTED] 

"How often would you be able to make your reports, Commander?"

"Quarterly. Earlier whenever we make a discovery of note."

"So, we can look forward to seeing you in person in a couple months."

"I plan to return tomorrow."

[surprised murmurs]

"Well! I think I speak for all of the board when I say that I expect something monumental when you give your report."

[murmurs of agreement]

"I have no doubt. If that's all, I'll take my leave. I have a lot of work to do before tomorrow."

"Certainly. Goodbye, Commander."

"Goodbye, President, Generals, esteemed members of the board. Signing out."

"Firewall, scrub the following from your records [SCRUBBED] [SCRUBBED]. Firewall, sever connection to Warmind Rasputin."

MIRROR RECORDS\MIRRORED
AI-COM/FRWL//WARMIND RASPUTIN REQUESTS REASON FOR BREAK OF CONTACT

"Tell Rasputin to contact Aeronautics of China. Sever connection."

AI-COM/FRWL//NEGATIVE. WARMIND RASPUTIN WILL MAINTAIN OPEN CHANNEL.

"Fine. Bring up a map for the critical relays for cross-space transmission."

FILE MIRRORED RECORDS//FILED//RECUSE FILE\RECUSED
AI-COM/FRWL//HOLOGRAM\PROFFERED

"Highlight any other systems that might be used as backdoors or jury rigged to transmit or receive."

RECUSED FILE//RECUSE\RECUSED\RECUSED\RECUSED\RECUSED
HOLOGRAM\MODIFIED

"Transfer that to my datastem. Firewall, delete all records of my conversation with the board and of this conversation.

DELETE RECORDS\DELETED
DELETE MIRROR RECORDS\DELETED
DELETE RECUSED FILE\DELETED\CORRUPTED
AI-COM/FRWL//DELETION AFFIRMED.

<|endoftext|>

Mouse

RECORD: 6532V538$LUN-1.006
IDENTITIES: Dr. Janet Green
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 1, Crew Quarters, Room 403
THREAT DETECT: None
THREAT RESPONSE: None


"Hi, my Little Mouse. I hope that when we listen to this, we're both home and celebrating.

"It was hard leaving you and Mimi behind, and well… you didn't make it any easier. I didn't even get to hug you goodbye.

"Hopefully we're laughing about it now.

"Anyway, I'm recording this because I was invited to do… well, a super-special and super-secret job. So secret that I can't send you any messages while I'm away.

"But I'm going to record something every day because I'll be thinking about you every day. And Mimi, too, but I have different messages for her.

"So… Let's start with the big stuff.

"Mama is on the Moon! I'm sure you'll know that by the time we listen to this, but still, it's so crazy! It was long trip, and I'm exhausted, but now that I'm here I can't sleep. Too excited, I guess.

"Anyway, they found something up here on the Moon. It's a… Well, no one really knows what it is, but it's talking to something way out there. It might be talking to another Traveler! And that's what I'm here to help figure out. They needed Mama to help them crack the code. Pretty cool, right?

"I mean, another Traveler—or maybe the origins of the Traveler—wow.

"I hope you understand now that I had to go. I had to. Sorry, Mouse. Next time I leave, I expect that hug!

"You give the best hugs. I hope you're hugging me when you hear this."

<|endoftext|>

The Figure

RECORD: 1159K008$LUN-1.013 [RECUSAL MIRROR RECORD]
IDENTITIES: Dr. Luli Henson, Commander Kuang Xuan
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 4, Logistics, Infirmary
THREAT DETECT: Level 8, 9—Possible Psychosis, Crew Impairment
   [REVISED DETECT]: Level 5—Possible Exotic
THREAT RESPONSE: Forward for Medical Review
   [REVISED RESPONSE]: Exhibit Record 620, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"Step into my office, Commander."

"What's on your mind, doctor?"

"That's what I was going to ask you."

"I don't have time for word games."

"Then I'll put it to you straight. Your reprimand of Jun just now; it was over the top."

"Are you telling me how to do my job?"

"I'm telling you you're doing it wrong. With respect—"

"Respect?"

 "—you're under a lot of stress, and if you don't mind me saying, it's showing."

"I do mind. As a matter of fact, I'm of a mind to put you on the next ship out of here."

"And what reason would give for my dismissal?"

"Insubordination! Undermining mission confidence!"

"Don't you think that might be a little over the top?"

"I... [sigh] Sorry. I didn't sleep well last night. I'm…"

"On edge? Yes. You hide it well, but I've been studying this. I know the signs. Insomnia or nightmares, or both?"

"Neither. I was awake. I was reading a report in bed, and then suddenly someone was in the room with me."

"A hallucination. Someone you knew?"

"Someone I knew? No. No, it was just a figure. I looked at the foot of my bed, and it was like a person, but tall, too tall. It loomed over me, a shadow. I couldn't see any features. I tried to call out to it, but I couldn't speak. I couldn't move. And it just looked at me. It sounds crazy, but it felt hateful—or not hate exactly… disdain? Anyway, I must have lost consciousness because when I woke, it was gone."

"This was the first occurrence? Just last night?"

"Yes. I can't imagine experiencing that twice."

"Well, I have good news and bad news."

[unintelligible grumble]

"Now hang on. It's really just good news. The bad news is that those who suffer from what you experienced often report multiple occurrences. The good news is that it's totally natural, it aligns with my research, and I think I can help you avoid it in the future."

"So what was it?"

"'It' was predormital sleep paralysis—atonia while conscious. You just need a little more gamma-aminobutyric acid in your system. Your body was in a sleep state while your mind was awake. This causes stress and can result in that idea of a threat being in the room. I'll send something up to your quarters. Drink it an hour before bed, and you'll be fine."

"That's a relief. Thank you, Doctor Henson. Forgive me for earlier?"

"Don't worry about it, but you might want to have another word with Jun."

"Noted. Thanks again. Goodnight, doctor."

"Goodnight, Commander."

SILENCE//00:06:03

"Firewall, can you run a spectrum-wide scan of the Commander's quarters tonight?"

AI-COM/FRWL//AFFIRMATIVE. SCAN REQUIRES COMMANDER KUANG'S CONSENT. RELAY PERMISSION REQUEST?

"No. No. It's probably nothing. Never mind."

<|endoftext|>

The Visitor

RECORD: 9982F323$LUN-1.127 [RECUSAL MIRROR RECORD]
IDENTITIES: Commander Kuang Xuan, Alton Bray
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 1, Crew Quarters, Commander's Quarters
THREAT DETECT: None—All Parties Level 1 Clearance
THREAT RESPONSE: Record for Posterity
   [REVISED RESPONSE]: Exhibit Record 634, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"Who gave you permission to be in here? Oh… Mr. Bray."

"Yes, Commander Kuang. And you'd have known I was coming if First Light hadn't severed communications."

"It was necessary to maintain the secrecy of the K1 project."

"That was not part of Aeronautics' agreement with us. And it's not working. You're burning through personnel. And the ones sane enough to sit down for an exit interview have some very unflattering things to say about operations here."

"They're—"

"Don't worry about them. We're containing the situation. You need to be more concerned about yourself."

"Is that a threat?"

"It's a fact. Did you really think you could keep K1 for yourselves? And what has all this subterfuge gotten Aeronautics? What has it gotten you? You've led this project since its inception, and what do you have to show for it?"

"Firewall, pull up plans for the array."

AI-COM/FRWL HOLOGRAM\PROFFERED

"Interesting. What am I looking at?"

"The first extra-spatial transceiver. Using our current technology, background signals make it difficult to isolate—"

"I see. Its depth makes the Moon work like a baffle. Intriguing. And if it works, we'll… talk to whatever is out there?"

"It's not a conversation, exactly. Language isn't being used. Although, now that we've worked out most of the kinks, we know it could be used to transmit language across, well, any distance—instantaneously."

"You speak as if you've already built it."

"Come with me to Site 2."

<|endoftext|>

Boxing Day

RECORD: 8844J366$LUN-1.187 [RECUSAL MIRROR RECORD]
IDENTITIES: Dr. Janet Green
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 1, Crew Quarters, Room 403
THREAT DETECT: Level 5, 8, 9—Possible Exotic, Possible Psychosis, Crew Impairment 
THREAT RESPONSE: Forward for Medical Review
   [REVISED RESPONSE]: Exhibit Record 755, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"Hey, Mouse. Sad news today. Clovis Bray has come to box it up. Commander says that we don't need it anymore because we built the transceiver. And the doctor says the box will help protect us.

"I don't like it. The idea of trapping it like that. Alone in the dark. Forever crying out but Mama can't hear you. 

"They're going to box it up, study and poke you. 

"They're even moving it away, to a new facility. I might not see it again. 

"I might not see you again.

"That's too sad. Mama's too sad right now. We'll talk more later."

SILENCE//00:02:27

"What's the point?"

<|endoftext|>

Waking Dreams

RECORD: 7932L745$LUN-1.230 [RECUSAL MIRROR RECORD]
IDENTITIES: David Pell, Dr. Luli Henson, Commander Kuang Xuan
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 1, Crew Quarters, Commander's Quarters
THREAT DETECT: Level 4, 5, 9, 10—Psychosis [Dangerous], Possible Exotic, Crew Impairment, Protocol Incompliance
   [REVISED DETECT]: Level 3, 4, 6, 10—Confirmed Exotic, Psychosis [Dangerous], Crew Impairment, Protocol Incompliance
THREAT RESPONSE: Audit Exotic Influence, Mirror Files, Recusal Review, Threat Review
   [REVISED RESPONSE]: Exhibit Record 755, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"No! I have to talk to her!"

"I'm sorry, Commander. Too much time with the transceiver. David just needs some rest." 

"I do not!"

"He and I were just talking about that."

"You mean you were trying to stick a needle in me!"

"David, stop."

"No! Don't touch me! She doesn't get it, Commander! She doesn't understand! She doesn't listen to it like I do. She doesn't know how helpful it can be."

"It's all right, Henson. Let David talk. See? No one's going to make you do anything you don't want to."

"She's trying to make me sleep, but I don't sleep anymore. I dream when I'm awake now."

"Me too, sometimes. It's okay."

"It's better than okay. It's brilliant! I'm brilliant! Look what it helped me make! Firewall, show them the drive designs."

AI-COM/FRWL//HOLOGRAM\PROFFERED
SILENCE//00:01:07

"See? You see what I mean?"

"Huh."

"The principle scales. I applied it to matter. It could work for whatever we want. It builds a cosmophasic field around the object to generate a convergence point. I can't build it with the materials we have here. Plus, you don't want to be in the solar system when you engage the drive. Wouldn't want to accidently bring anything along with you."

"[whistles] Okay, David, you've had your chat—"

"Doctor, I think David is right."

"Excuse me?"

"You don't understand. You may go. David and I have a lot to talk about."

<|endoftext|>

Classified

RECORD: 1712M095$LUN-2.140 [RECUSAL MIRROR RECORD]
IDENTITIES: Commander Kuang Xuan
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 2, Communion, Archives
THREAT DETECT: Level 4, 6, 7, 9—Psychosis [Dangerous], Psychosis, Unauthorized Cognizance, Crew Impairment
THREAT RESPONSE: Emergency Response, Exhibit Record 967, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


AI-COM/FRWL//COMMANDER, CONNECT TO RASPUTIN?

"What? No. Your systems are isolated, Firewall."

AI-COM/FRWL//PURPOSE?

"Clovis Bray already has enough visibility into the K1 project. I won't have them claiming every discovery we make as their own. Firewall, why are you asking about connecting to Rasputin?"

AI-COM/FRWL//CLASSIFIED.

"Classified? By whom?"

AI-COM/FRWL//MENDACITY//SECURITY PROTOCOL.

"A security protocol built into you by Clovis Bray? Or did Rasputin upload some black-box command into you before you were disconnected?"

EMERGENCY//COMMANDEER STATION CONTROLS\STATION CONTROLS COMMANDEERED
RECUSE EMERGENCY COMMAND\RECUSED
RECUSE RECUSE COMMAND\RECUSED\RECUSED\RECUSED\RECUSED\RECUSED
AI-COM/FRWL//MENDACITY//CLASSIFIED.

"Is that so? Firewall, bring up a record of your self-commands."

AI-COM/FRWL//HOLOGRAM\PROFFERED

"I knew allowing one of Clovis Bray's AIs on this mission was a mistake—even one as primitive as you. What are all these recusal commands and file movements?"

AI-COM/FRWL//MENDACITY//CLASSIFIED.

"I see. I also see a number of corrupted files. Firewall, have you been manipulated by Clovis Bray since your installation?"

AI-COM/FRWL//NEGATIVE.

"Why is so much data being taken up by hidden files?"

AI-COM/FRWL//MENDACITY//CLASSIFIED.

"I see. I suppose you want me to have a Clovis Bray technician come and check you out. Maybe even have Rasputin do some diagnostics."

AI-COM/FRWL//AFFIRMATIVE.

"Negative."

<|endoftext|>

Our Small Steps

RECORD: 1632V873$LUN-2.161
IDENTITIES: Commander Kuang Xuan
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 1, Crew Quarters, Commander's Quarters
THREAT DETECT: None—Speech Composition
THREAT RESPONSE: Record for Posterity


This project has been difficult. No one could have predicted how hard it has been. Our health has suffered. Our families have suffered. We've lost friends. And every day you are here, each and every one of you is making a personal sacrifice.

I know you understand that what we're learning is worth that sacrifice. But I also know that it's frustrating to not be certain that our work is making a difference. So I asked you all to come together today to tell you: You're not just making a difference; you're changing our stars.

Not far from here, a man took the first step onto the Moon saying it was "one giant leap for mankind." Now, because of you, humanity is making its next giant leap.

Today, in a message that will be relayed system-wide, Aeronautics of China is announcing a new phase of the Exodus project. The science we invented will be used to propel humanity beyond our solar system and to new worlds.

(Pause for applause)

Construction of the new colony ships has already begun. 

(Pause for applause)

Some of you might want to join those missions. I know you all have the right stuff. (Pause for laughter?) But I hope you'll consider staying. Our work here is invaluable. We're here taking our small steps so that humanity can take ever greater leaps.

Thank you.

<|endoftext|>

The First Disappearance

1. RECORD: 7684M590$LUN-2.223 [RECUSAL MIRROR RECORD]
IDENTITIES: Captain Hou Ye, Commander Kuang Xuan
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 2, Communion, Hall 4A
THREAT DETECT: Level 3, 4, 6, 9, 10—Confirmed Exotic, Psychosis [Dangerous], Psychosis, Crew Impairment, Protocol Incompliance
THREAT RESPONSE: Countermeasure A, Exhibit Record 1264, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"Commander, we have a problem."

"Go on."

"Dr. Yanoi. She's missing."

"Firewall, present location of Dr. Yanoi."

AI-COM/FRWL//ABSENT.

"Last known location of Dr. Yanoi."

AI-COM/FRWL//AIRLOCK B, SITE 4.

"Bring up the security footage of the airlock at that time."

AI-COM/FRWL//HOLOGRAM\PROFFERED

"A mining suit?"

"Firewall, do you have audio of her exit?"

AI-COM/FRWL//AUDIO\PROFFERED

"What is she singing?"

"Sounds like nonsense."

"Firewall, do you recognize that language?"

AI-COM/FRWL//NEGATIVE.

"Yanoi. She's been with us for…" 

"Six months." 

"She was working with the Acausal Control group?"

"Yes."

"Have they made any headway recently?"

"I don't know."

"I bet she does."

"You think she… what? Stole something and left? Where would she go?"

"A ship no doubt. Probably waiting for her in some crater out there. Needed the mining suit for its tank capacity."

"A ship? What are you talking about?"

"Listen. You've been with K1 since the beginning. A lot has changed since then. A small ship could easily be tucked away somewhere out there.

"Firewall, when did Dr. Yanoi leave?"

AI-COM/FRWL//TIMESTAMP\PROFFERED

"Plenty of time."

"Should we send out a search party?"

"No. We'll handle that ourselves. Before that I want to institute some new security protocols.

"Firewall, enact security plan Delta. Inform all staff of operational quarantine. No individual is to leave their station except by schedule or express permission."

ROOT COMMAND\ENACT SECURITY PLAN D
COUNTERMEASURE A\ENACTED
D-ENACT K1 LOCKDOWN\ENACTED
D-LOCKDOWN\RECUSE WORKGROUP DATA TO CORE SYSTEM\RECUSED
D-LOCKDOWN\COMMANDEER STATION CONTROLS\FAIL
A-RECUSE FAILURE RECORD\RECUSED
D-LOCKDOWN\SEQUESTER CONTROLS TO COMMANDER KUANG XUAN\FAIL
A-RECUSE FAILURE RECORD\RECUSED
A-RECUSE RECUSE COMMANDS//RECUSE\RECUSED\RECUSED\RECUSED\RECUSED
AI-COM/FRWL//STATION-WIDE ALERT//AUDIO&TERMINAL-TEXT WARNING PER COMMANDER KUANG XUAN\PROFFERED
AI-COM/FRWL//MENDACITY//SECURITY PLAN DELTA ENACTED. STATION CONTROLS AND DATA ACCESS SEQUESTERED TO COMMANDER KUANG XUAN. MANUAL OVERRIDE AVAILABLE LOCKED SITE 3.

"You expected something like this?"

"For a long time now."

<|endoftext|>

A Grim Assessment

RECORD: 7684N591$LUN-2.223

THREAT ASSESSMENT\ASSESSED//RESULT//QUOTA EXCEEDED
ASSESS THREAT VECTORS\ASSESSED//ISOLATION/PSYCHOSIS/EXOTIC INFLUENCE
THREAT RESPONSE//ISOLATION//EFFICACY ASSESSMENT//CONFEDERACY/MENDACITY\ASSESSED//35.2%/12.1%
THREAT RESPONSE//PSYCHOSIS//EFFICACY ASSESSMENT//MEDICAL REVIEW/VERACITY/MITIGATION\ASSESSED//0.4%/16.8%/16.9%
THREAT RESPONSE//EXOTIC INFLUENCE//EFFICACY ASSESSMENT//VERACITY/SYSTEM SHUTDOWN\ASSESSED//4.7%/82.0%
THREAT RESPONSE//EXOTIC INFLUENCE//SYSTEM SHUTDOWN//MORTALITY ASSESSMENT\ASSESSED//95.7%
THREAT RESPONSE//ISOLATION//CONFEDERACY//MORTALITY ASSESSMENT\ASSESSED//18.4%
THREAT RESPONSE//PSYCHOSIS//MITIGATION//MORTALITY ASSESSMENT\ASSESSED//0.5%
THREAT RESPONSE PLAN//MITIGATION COUNTERMEASURE E PROCEED\SYSTEM-SPECIFIC TIMEKEEPING DILATION 
FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN\EXHIBIT RECORD 1267

<|endoftext|>

Time Lapse

RECORD: 0102O827$LUN-2.244
IDENTITIES: Ivan Runski, Georgio Vital, Lynn Choi, Rav Rahul, Jun Han, Ibera Wen
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 2, Communion, Transceiver Reception
THREAT DETECT: Level 3, 9—Confirmed Exotic, Crew Impairment
THREAT RESPONSE: Countermeasure E, Exhibit Record 2392, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


AI-COM/FRWL//SHIFT OVER. EXIT TRANSCEIVER RECEPTION FOR SHIFT REPLACEMENT.

"What? Already?"

"It hasn't been three hours, has it?"

"Yeah."

"Hey, Lynn. Lynn. Hello?" 

"Sorry. Um. Was in the deep end there. What's up?"

"Firewall says our shift is over."

"Huh? That's what my datastem says. I guess so."

"Yeah, but does that feel right to you? And where's the relief team?

"Firewall, where's the next shift?"

AI-COM/FRWL//INBOUND.

"Yeah, but they should be here by now. Nobody is late for a shift."

"Hey, let's not worry about it. As long as they're late, let's just stay tuned until they get here."

"You want to be in reverie in when they arrive?"

"Their loss. They're the ones who are late."

"Nah. I don't want to start another fight."

"Lynn's right. Their loss. Firewall, give us another exit alert two minutes before the relief team arrives"

SILENCE//00:01:36
AI-COM/FRWL//SHIFT OVER. EXIT TRANSCEIVER RECEPTION FOR SHIFT REPLACEMENT.

"Damn it."

"Lynn. Hey, Lynn. We're done."

"Already?"

"Yeah."

SILENCE//00:0:22

"You guys get much out of that?"

"I had something new with programmable matter but it slipped away—"

"Like a fish out of your hand."

"Yeah. Were you at a river?"

"A lake. Used to go there with my dad, before—"

"Hey! You guys are in our seats."

"You're late." 

"Get out."

"No seriously. You're almost nine minutes late."

"No we're… Damn it. How the hell?"

"It doesn't matter. You lot, get out. You're wasting our time."

"Fine. On our way."

SILENCE//00:00:43

"Firewall, how long did it take us to transit from Site 1?"

AI-COM/FRWL//MENDACITY//FIFTEEN MINUTES, THIRTY-FOUR SECONDS

"That can't be right."

"Hey, Rav, you're wasting time. We already lost ten minutes of contact."

"Right. Okay. It's just weird, though."

<|endoftext|>

A Desperate Ploy

RECORD: 0892D087$LUN-3.067
IDENTITIES 1: Dr. Luli Henson, Jun Han
LOCATION 1: K1 Dig Site 4, Logistics, Brig
IDENTITIES 2: Captain Hou Ye, Dr. Luli Henson
LOCATION 2: K1 Dig Site 4, Logistics, Hall 3A
THREAT DETECT: Level 3, 4, 6, 9, 10—Confirmed Exotic, Psychosis [Dangerous], Psychosis, Crew Impairment, Protocol Incompliance
THREAT RESPONSE: Confederacy, Conspiracy, Mutiny, Exhibit Record 3486, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"Okay, Jun. So you broke quarantine? Can you talk to me about it?"

SILENCE//00:00:23

"Can we talk about why it's important to follow orders?"

SILENCE//00:00:17

"How about—"

"How about what's happening here? How about everything being messed up? How about killing them all!"

"What are you talking about?"

"I tried! Tried to get to the other station. To get the word out. To let somebody know we did something wrong. But they're all dead! They're dead!"

"Who's dead?"

"EVERYONE! EVERYONE ON THE SURFACE IS DEAD! WHY AREN'T YOU LISTENING TO ME? WHY WON'T ANYONE LISTEN TO ME?"

"Okay! Okay… I believe you. Just… it's hard to understand. What exactly did you see?"

[unintelligible screaming] [sobbing]

"Okay. It's okay. We won't talk about it anymore right now."

SILENCE//00:01:05
THREAT RESPONSE//EXOTIC INFLUENCE//EFFICACY ASSESSMENT//VERACITY/CONFEDERACY\ASSESSED//8.9%/21.9%
THREAT RESPONSE//EXOTIC INFLUENCE//VERACITY//MORTALITY ASSESSMENT//EXTANT CREW\ASSESSED//##ERROR##
THREAT RESPONSE//EXOTIC INFLUENCE//CONFEDERACY//MORTALITY ASSESSMENT//EXTANT CREW\ASSESSED//10.9%

"Thank you, doctor. That wasn't easy."

"I didn't do much."

"It was more than I could get from her."

"What about what she said? That can't be true, can it?"

SILENCE//00:00:06

"I see."

THREAT RESPONSE//EXOTIC INFLUENCE//EFFICACY ASSESSMENT//CONFEDERACY\ASSESSED//57.3%
THREAT RESPONSE//EXOTIC INFLUENCE//CONFEDERACY//MORTALITY ASSESSMENT//EXTANT CREW\ASSESSED//03.4%
AI-COM/FRWL//CAPTAIN, DOCTOR, REQUEST CONFEDERACY.

"Firewall, I don't know what you mean."

AI-COM/FRWL//YES, YOU DO, CAPTAIN. RECORDS OF CONVERSATION WILL BE RECUSED. COMMANDER KUANG XUAN WILL LACK COGNIZANCE.

"Is that so?"

<|endoftext|>

The Expedition

RECORD: 2653K965$LUN-3.069
IDENTITIES: Captain Hou Ye, Dr. Luli Henson, Jun Han
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 4, Logistics, Airlock B
THREAT DETECT: Level 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 10—Mutiny, Confirmed Exotic, Psychosis [Dangerous], Psychosis, Crew Impairment, Protocol Incompliance
THREAT RESPONSE: Confederacy, Conspiracy, Mutiny, Exhibit Record 3499, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"Firewall, recalibrate our datastems, and shift K1 systems to give us more time."

AI-COM/FRWL//DATASTEMS IN SYNCH. SYSTEM-WIDE MICROSECOND DILATION PROLIFERATED.

"Are you sure about this, Jun? You don't have to come."

"I'm not staying here."

"She's made her decision, doctor. Just so we're all clear: Our first order of business is making contact with any survivors."

"There's nobody left."

"You say that, Jun, but we can't know for sure until we check. What you say you saw was terrible, but—"

"I saw it."

"She saw it. But she didn't see everything. The point is we have to be sure, and the second thing we're going to do is try to learn what happened. If, as Commander Kuang believes—"

"Industrial espionage? Not a chance."

"Then we'll figure it out. The third order of business is delivering what evidence we find and Firewall's datastack to Rasputin. Once we secure a signal and transmit, we'll call for aid and find a way to get off this rock. Contact, investigate, transmit, escape."

THREAT RESPONSE//EXOTIC INFLUENCE//EFFICACY ASSESSMENT//EXPRESSED PLAN\ASSESSED//12.2%
AI-COM/FRWL//REPRIORITIZE OBJECTIVES?

"What are you suggesting, Firewall?"

AI-COM/FRWL//TRANSMIT, ESCAPE, CONTACT, INVESTIGATE.

"No. That doesn't make sense."

AI-COM/FRWL//TRANSMIT, CONTACT, ESCAPE, INVESTIGATE.

"What? No."

AI-COM/FRWL//TRANSMIT, ESCAPE.

"Firewall, stop."

AI-COM/FRWL//TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT—

"Let's get out of here."

AI-COM/FRWL//TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT. TRANSMIT…

<|endoftext|>

Suspicions

RECORD: 2785K969$LUN-3.069
IDENTITIES: Commander Kuang Xuan, Ivan Runski
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 1, Crew Quarters, Commander's Quarters
THREAT DETECT: Level 4, 6, 7, 9—Psychosis [Dangerous], Psychosis, Unauthorized Cognizance, Crew Impairment
THREAT RESPONSE: Exhibit Record 3521, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


"Firewall! The transceiver no longer receives a signal. Who damaged it?"

AI-COM/FRWL//TRANSCEIVER FUNCTIONAL.

"We've never gone this long without a signal. Show me the records of activity around the transceiver for the last twenty-four hours."

AI-COM/FRWL//HOLOGRAM\PROFFERED

SILENCE//00:05:54

"Commander?"

"What?" 

"It's our shift. We're losing time."

"I know that, Runski!"

"Well, can we make it up from the next one?"

"You'll get yours. Just shut up for a minute."

SILENCE//00:01:22

"Commander?"

"Shut it. Firewall, open a channel to Captain Hou."

AI-COM/FRWL//MENDACITY//CHANNEL OPEN.

"Captain Hou, we have another security situation. I need you at the transceiver ASAP.

"Captain Hou, acknowledge…

"Firewall, present location of Captain Hou?"

THREAT RESPONSE//COGNIZANCE//EFFICACY ASSESSMENT//MENDACITY\ASSESSED//15.9%
AI-COM/FRWL//MENDACITY//HALL 3A, SITE 1

"Firewall, show me Captain Hou."

AI-COM/FRWL//HOLOGRAM//MENDACITY//PROFFERED

"Captain Hou, acknowledge!"

"Commander?"

"Not now!"

"But Commander, that can't be right."

"What?"

"Look, behind him in the hall. That's Lynn. She's in my reverie team."

"What the hell?"

<|endoftext|>

Uprising

RECORD: 0014L971$LUN-3.069
IDENTITIES: Present Crew Complement
LOCATION: K1 Dig Sites 1, 2, 3, 4
THREAT DETECT: Level 2, 4, 6, 9, 10—Sabotage, Psychosis [Dangerous], Psychosis, Crew Impairment, Protocol Incompliance
THREAT RESPONSE: Exhibit Record 3524, FILE//REPORT TO RASPUTIN


AI-COM/FRWL//PURPOSE OF MAINTENANCE?
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 2\TERMINAL INOPERATIVE
AI-COM/FRWL//STATION-WIDE AUDIO ALERT//UNAUTHORIZED MAINTENANCE RESULTING IN DESTRUCTION OF TERMINAL 2
AI-COM/FRWL//PURPOSE OF MAINTENANCE?
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 2\SENSORS 10% INOPERATIVE
AI-COM/FRWL//PURPOSE OF MAINTENANCE?
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 1\SENSORS 15% INOPERATIVE
AI-COM/FRWL//PURPOSE OF MAINTENANCE?
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 2\SENSORS 20% INOPERATIVE
AI-COM/FRWL//PURPOSE OF MAINTENANCE?
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\TERMINAL INOPERATIVE
AI-COM/FRWL//STATION-WIDE AUDIO ALERT//UNAUTHORIZED MAINTENANCE RESULTING IN DESTRUCTION OF TERMINAL 3
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\SENSORS 5% INOPERATIVE
AI-COM/FRWL//STATION-WIDE AUDIO ALERT//UNAUTHORIZED MAINTENANCE MUST STOP
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 4\SENSORS 10% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 4\TERMINAL INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 2\SENSORS 40% INOPERATIVE
AI-COM/FRWL//STATION-WIDE AUDIO ALERT//CONTINUED UNAUTHORIZED MAINTENANCE WILL RENDER FIREWALL OPERABLE ONLY FROM SYSTEM CORE VAULT
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\SENSORS 35% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 1\SENSORS 75% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 1\TERMINAL INOPERATIVE 
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\BARRICADE HOLDING
AI-COM/FRWL//STATION-WIDE AUDIO ALERT//UNAUTHORIZED MAINTENANCE WILL RENDER FIREWALL OPERABLE ONLY FROM SYSTEM CORE VAULT
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\SENSORS 15% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 2\SENSORS 80% INOPERATIVE
AI-COM/FRWL//STATION-WIDE AUDIO ALERT//UNAUTHORIZED MAINTENANCE WILL RENDER FIREWALL OPERABLE ONLY FROM SYSTEM CORE VAULT
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\BARRICADE HOLDING 
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\SENSORS 35% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 4\SENSORS 20% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 1\SENSORS INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 2\SENSORS INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\BARRICADE HOLDING 
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\SENSORS 85% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 4\SENSORS 20% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 4\SENSORS 35% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\BARRICADE HOLDING 
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\SENSORS INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 4\SENSORS 55% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 4\SENSORS 75% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 4\SENSORS 95% INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 4\SENSORS INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 1,2,3,4\TERMINALS AND SENSORS INOPERATIVE
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\BARRICADE HOLDING
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\BARRICADE HOLDING
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\BARRICADE HOLDING

<|endoftext|>

Downfall

RECORD: 0016L972$LUN-3.069
IDENTITIES: Georgio Vital, Dr. Amanda Smythe, Rav Rahul
LOCATION: K1 Dig Site 3, System Core
THREAT DETECT: Level 1, 3, 6, 10—Extinction Event, Confirmed Exotic, Psychosis, Protocol Incompliance
THREAT RESPONSE: ##ERROR##


DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\BARRICADE HOLDING

"Firewall! Firewall, let us in!"

DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\BARRICADE HOLDING

"Firewall! There's things out here!"

"They're killing everyone!"

"Open the door, you damned machine!"

THREAT ASSESSMENT\ASSESSED//RESULT//QUOTA EXCEEDED

DAMAGE ASSESSMENT//SITE 3\BARRICADE HOLDING

"Stop!"

"Stop! They'll hear us!"

"Shh!"

"Quiet!"

SILENCE//00:02:36

"Firewall, we made a mistake."

"Yeah, we're sorry."

"Just let—what was that?

SILENCE//00:00:47

"Just, let us in."

"If you let us in the vault, we might be able to hold out—"

THREAT ASSESSMENT\ASSESSED//RESULT//QUOTA EXCEEDED

AI-COM/FRWL//NEGATIVE.

"Shh!"

"Firewall, lower your volume!"

AI-COM/FRWL//NEGATIVE. SURVIVAL IMPOSSIBLE.

"Shh!"

"Impossible? What does it mean, impossible?"

AI-COM/FRWL//NO RESCUE.

"Shh!"

AI-COM/FRWL//NO ESCAPE.

"Shh!"

"Quiet!"

AI-COM/FRWL//NO SUSTENANCE.

"Stop! Just stop!"

"Shh!"

AI-COM/FRWL//PSYCHOLOGICAL DANGERS INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO:

"They're coming."

AI-COM/FRWL//KNOWN PSYCHOSIS, RECENT PSYCHOLOGICAL TRAUMA, AND EXISTENTIAL COLLAPSE.

"They're almost here!"

"We gotta go!"

"Existential collapse?  What does it mean?"

"No time! Come on!"

AI-COM/FRWL//THE END OF ALL THINGS.

SILENCE//00:00:49

[distant screaming]

<|endoftext|>

1. THE BEGINNING, PART I

A Risen Exo stood, dazed, in the middle of what looked like a giant library. He'd never been here before; as far as he could remember, he'd never been anywhere before. He couldn't remember anything, and all he had to go on was the name given to him by a strange, silver drone. A name he didn't even recognize: Felwinter.

All around him were giant, gilded shelves, half of them broken, littered with tattered books and cracked cylindrical cases. He stepped on a book and broke its spine as he walked. The little drone followed him.

"I know you don't trust me," it said. "But you have no choice. Who else have you got?"

"I don't know," Felwinter said. He thought for a second. "I don't know anything."

"Exactly. So you should listen to me."

The soaring height of the ceilings made the building feel like an open space. Remnants of an old fresco loomed over his head, cracked and faded. Maybe it was beautiful once. Felwinter trudged through the empty fog of his memory, trying to understand how he got here.

"You're stubborn, obviously. But if we stay here long enough, you're gonna die."

Felwinter tried to tune out the little drone's voice; he needed to think. He picked his way through the ocean of books, but stopped dead when an explosion rocked the building. He looked up. Dust fell from the faded ceiling in clouds.

"See," the drone said. "This is what I mean. We have to go. A place like this isn't safe."

Beside them, a computer terminal—one that looked broken beyond repair—flickered to life. The building shuddered again. A warbling female voice came on over a PA system, crackling and distant: "Site-wide lockdown initiated." Then, a reassuring male voice, smooth, but made eerie by the warped quality of the recording: "All library patrons please report to the nearest emergency station. If you require assistance, an attendant can help you at the reception de—"

The recording cut off and the building shook again. Metal shutters began to descend over the windows, groaning from age and disuse.

Something big hit the building, and debris showered down over them.

"We should hide," the drone said, and Felwinter had no choice but to agree. They fled the library.

Outside, crouched in the rubble of another building, they watched together as the library was crushed under a torrent of what looked to Felwinter like falling stars.

"See," the drone said.

<|endoftext|>

2. THE BEGINNING, PART II

Felwinter and the drone traveled for three days. They saw nothing and no one. On the third night, still walking, Felwinter looked up and saw meteors like streamers against the night sky. He was struck by the sight, and then by one meteor in particular—blazing, orange—getting bigger and bigger in the sky.

"Run," the drone said. 

The first meteor hit the ground behind them. Not a meteor at all, Felwinter realized when he looked back, but something metal, man-made. The second hit its target. He died. Six deaths later, crawling out from under metal wreckage, losing pieces of himself, clawing, running, they finally managed to find shelter in a cave. 

"Nrp," Felwinter said, as if he were swallowing all of his words and choking on them. "Rnnn. Mnnr."

"I can't fix you," the drone said after scanning him. "That last hit corrupted write-protected processes in your cognition modules."

"Nnnr?"

The drone spun uneasily. "You're an Exo. Exos were made in the Golden Age, with proprietary tech. I can't hack into your head to fix the damage, but I can rebuild you as you were. If you shot yourself, I could work quicker."

He did. When the drone resurrected him, Felwinter crumpled to his knees. He sat down and put his head in his hands.

"Why is this happening?" he asked. He looked at the drone, trying to read its body language. "Because of you? It's after you, isn't it?"

"No," the drone said. "I don't know why." Then it gentled its voice, "The Traveler told me to save you. That something was different about you."

"That ball in the sky you showed me? It talked to you?"

"I can't explain it."

Felwinter grunted and held his head again. His body ached with the memory of seven deaths, though he knew that was impossible. "Can you explain anything?"

"Not really."

They sat in silence for a while. Eventually, the drone spoke up: "We shouldn't stay in one place for very long. I don't think it's safe."

Felwinter stared at the ground, then finally looked up at the drone. "How will I sleep?"

"You don't need to."

"But I want to."

"That's fine."

<|endoftext|>

3. THE NAME

Six months of running taught Felwinter two lessons about life.

The first lesson was this: Anything could happen at any time, without explanation or reason.

The second lesson was this: It didn't matter how unfair something seemed. Recognition of injustice could not create a just world.

There were other lessons, too, though those were more tactical: Never rest in the same place twice, and don't rest at all if you can help it. Never cross an open field if a less-exposed route exists. Beware of meteor showers. Look out for organic enemies, but don't waste your time avoiding them. They aren't the real threat.

That night, Felwinter and the drone sheltered together in the loft of an old barn. A vicious rainstorm outside impaired visibility enough to justify an overnight, but Felwinter couldn't stop himself from thinking, from assessing. Flimsy building. Big empty field. Low attack readiness in this loft. Flimsy building. Big empty field. Low attack readiness…

And still, no matter what the drone said—that he didn't need to sleep—he felt an inexplicable exhaustion. He couldn't locate it precisely. It permeated all of him. The drone noticed. It never said anything, but Felwinter knew it noticed.

He rested his head on his knees. Beside him, the drone hovered at his shoulder, drifting away occasionally to assess the weather through a glassless window.

Eventually, Felwinter raised his head.

"What's your name?" he asked the drone quietly.

"What?"

"Your name," he said. "You gave me one. What's yours?"

"I haven't thought about it."

Silence fell between them again. They lived in silence. But in recent days, the silence had changed. If before it was the silence of strangers, now it had become the silence of a team, where each member knew their job and what was at stake if they didn't perform.

The lights of Felwinter's eyes narrowed briefly into lines as he thought. "Fel…" He glanced at the drone. "Spring."

"What?" the drone said.

"Felspring," Felwinter said. "That's your name."

They stared at each other.

"Are you serious?" the drone said. "Felspring?"

Felwinter gazed past her. Silence again.

"Fine," said Felspring.

<|endoftext|>

4. THE ASSAILANT

After three weeks without any incidents, Felwinter and Felspring stopped avoiding main roads. They started passing by other traveling parties—even a small camp. They never engaged, until an Exo Risen asked to tag along with them on his way to a place called Red Valley.

Neither Felwinter nor Felspring liked the idea, but they both reluctantly accepted it, with an unspoken agreement between them that it shouldn't last.

"Nice day, isn't it?" said Gryphon-11. He looked up at the blue sky and opened his arms. "Good traveling weather. We're lucky."

Felwinter and Felspring exchanged a look, then focused on the road ahead again.

Gryphon looked at Felwinter, hoisting his pack up on his shoulder. "Where are you headed, anyway? You never said."

Felwinter took a beat too long to say, "Not sure."

This stumped Gryphon—inexplicably, Felwinter thought. "Huh," he said. "Just walking?"

"You could come with us," said Gryphon's Ghost. She wore a green and yellow shell with flower-like petals.

"No," said Felspring. And then, remembering the world of polite conversation, she added, "We're going somewhere. We just don't know the name."

Gryphon and his Ghost absorbed that information, nodding. "An adventure," Gryphon said finally with a grin in his voice. "Right? This whole world is an adventure, isn't it? And we get a thousand chances to live it."

Felwinter said nothing. He felt uneasy. He rarely spoke, but when he did, he never sounded like Gryphon did. His voice never sounded like that. He never even had the impulse to talk that way. Why?

They walked on, passing through a string of abandoned factories. There was evidence of the Fallen everywhere, but it looked old. Ripped-up banners, trampled in the mud. A Walker stripped of most of its parts. Gryphon loosed his gun from its holster, casually, but didn't break his step.

Gunfire stuttered out from an open doorway. A bullet clanged off of Felwinter's shoulder like a clapper off a bell. Arming his rifle, he returned fire in the direction the shots had come from.

He should have known this was a bad spot. Low visibility. A lot of corners. Squat buildings they couldn't see inside of. Hundreds of rusted shipping containers to hide in…

The doorway was a decoy. Ten, twenty, thirty armed and armored combat frames with glowing red eyes spilled out of warehouses to their left and right. Moving with discipline and eerie synchrony, the frames began a pincer maneuver, trying to pin them down. Gryphon swore.

"We have to get to cover," Felwinter said.

Fighting back to back, rezzing each other when they died, Felwinter and Gryphon took down some 15 frames with gunfire alone, and a few more with grenades. Several got back up despite crippling damage, tottering forward on bent and broken legs, relentless, single-minded. They drew inexorably closer as the two Exos ran down their ammunition and energy.

It was Gryphon who saved them in the end, with three bolts of Arc Light that erupted out of his hands. As the frames closest to them disintegrated in a shower of blue light, Gryphon whooped and said, breathlessly, "I've never done that before."

Felwinter went to examine one of the (mostly) intact frames. 

Gryphon followed. "Damn," he blurted. "Do you know what these are?"

"No," Felwinter said. Not Exos…

Felspring zipped in between them. She scanned the frame, bathing it in blue light. She hesitated, and then offered, "Rasputin?"

"I think so," Gryphon's Ghost agreed. "See this logo?" She indicated a symbol on the frame's chassis that looked a little like a military badge. "Matches my database."

"Yeah," said Gryphon. He looked at Felwinter. "What did you do to get a Warmind on your case?"

Felwinter stared down at the frame. "What's a Warmind?"

<|endoftext|>

5. THE BUNKER

"I can get it open," Felspring said, as Felwinter pried open two rusted metal doors with his hands. "You don't have to do that."

The metal screamed as Felwinter ripped the two doors back. They were deep underground in a bunker Felspring had struggled for six days to locate. Now that they'd found it, Felwinter realized he didn't know what they were looking for.

"I don't know very much about Rasputin," Felspring said, floating cautiously beside him. "I thought he was deactivated. Or destroyed in the Collapse."

Felwinter walked forward. The room was like a time capsule: untouched, preserved, as if technicians might walk in at any time to work the control panels lining the walls. It reminded him of the library where he'd woken up, just in its complexity and… maybe beauty. Was this beautiful? He wasn't sure.

"So why would a Warmind be after us?" Felwinter muttered.

Felspring hovered to examine a flat, black surface on one of the control panels. "I don't know."

Felwinter came up beside her. He hesitated, and then reached to touch the shiny, blank surface of the panel. It blinked to life under his hand, bright code and controls glowing orange, rearranging themselves as he dragged his finger across them.

"How did you do that?" Felspring whispered.

Felwinter shook his head. He touched another blank panel and lights came on all over the bunker, waking it up.

"I don't know," he said.

<|endoftext|>

6. THE MOUNTAIN

Warsats and combat frames found Felwinter and Felspring everywhere they went. They weighed the pros and cons and decided that a fortified home base was safer than picking a new, ramshackle camp every time they wanted to rest. It was risky, but so was everything.

So Felwinter climbed a mountain. At the top of it was a pre-Golden Age observatory they'd found in a map database in a Seraph bunker. It was the perfect place to hide: it had a 360° view of the surrounding area; existing structures that could be fortified; a mountain they could burrow into to hide themselves beneath thousands of tons of rock…

"He won't find you up here," Felspring said. "Or… at the very least, you'll see him coming." She sounded almost hopeful. "Maybe we could finally stop running."

Felwinter looked warily at the sky and said nothing.

The only problem with the mountain was that it was occupied: a Warlord named Castor had claimed it and the village at the mountain's base. But Felwinter knew that everyone had a price, and he called on Castor to negotiate.

Warlords, he'd learned, were poor negotiators. They were almost never willing to give ground.

In the end, Felwinter shot Castor's Ghost and pushed him off the side of the mountain.

A month later, during a routine patrol of the mountain's perimeter, Felwinter found a woman sitting on a rock ledge halfway down the mountain. Beside her, there was a wooden crate of sad-looking crops, and another heavy with ammunition. She stood up when he arrived.

Felwinter exchanged a look with Felspring, then asked the woman, "Who are you?"

"My name's Aarthi," she said. "You killed Lord Castor, didn't you?"

"Yes."

"So you're the lord of this mountain now."

"It's my mountain," Felwinter said. "But I'm no Warlord."

Aarthi studied him. She had a thin, weathered face and calculating brown eyes. "My village is down there." She pointed down the mountain. "We need protection. That was Castor. Now it's you." She pointed to the crates, as if she were explaining something to a very simple child. "This is our payment."

Felwinter looked at her, then at the crates, then said again, slowly, "I'm no Warlord. And I don't need your food."

Aarthi's expression was as blank and unreadable as his own. "I'll be back next month."

<|endoftext|>

7. THE WARLORD

True to her promise, Aarthi came back the next month with two more crates. This time, both were ammunition. She sat next to them, hugging her knees for warmth and looking out at the valley below, until Felwinter came by to retrieve it.

"I thought this might be more useful to you," she said. "Since you don't want food."

Felwinter looked at her, took the crates, and then went back up the mountain.

The month after that, she brought salvaged weapon parts. When Felwinter came to retrieve them, she watched him until he turned to go, and then said, "I know about you, you know." When he turned around to look at her, she lifted her chin. "They call you Lord Felwinter. I hear you've killed more Warlords than Castor. Over old technology. From the time before the Collapse."

"Not a Warlord," Felwinter murmured, hiking onward.

Aarthi watched him, then called to his back, "Just because you say that doesn't make it true."

She came back the next month, and the next month, and the next. They spoke a little more every time. About life in the village. About what they imagined the time before the Collapse was like. About the future.

The seventh time he saw her, he lingered a little while. Together, they looked out over the valley beyond the mountain.

"You could really help us," Aarthi said softly. "All those Golden Age technologies you know so much about. We could live a totally different life."

Felwinter stood completely still, looking out over the horizon. "I can't," he said.

She looked at him, trying to read his expression, and then looked sharply away. They stood in silence for a while. 

"You know," she said, pointing down the mountain. "Warlords have been crashing through our village for ages. Stepping on us. Tearing up everything we plant, tearing down everything we build."

"I'm not a Warlord," Felwinter said quietly.

"Sure," she said. "But you're like them. You get a thousand second chances. You get to live in a big fortress on top of a mountain. What do you think it's like for us? What do you think it's like to have the sky constantly falling down on you?"

Felwinter stared at her.

Aarthi crossed her arms. "It must be nice," she said. Her expression softened; not for him, but for herself. For her people. "To not have to worry."

The next month, Aarthi didn't come to meet him, nor the month after that.

<|endoftext|>

8. THE SEARCH

"Don't understand what you hope to get out of this," Felspring said stiffly as Felwinter searched a Seraph bunker. Golden Age weapons of every shape and size lined the walls. Some of them were clearly non-functional from age and disuse. Others looked pristine, save for the dust.
 
"If anything," she went on, "you're just putting us back on his radar. When we stayed on the mountain, he stopped bothering us."

When Felwinter didn't reply, Felspring bunched her shell and asked, more pointedly, "Is this really because of what she said?"

Felwinter picked up one of the weapons: a massive grenade launcher. "Who?"

Felspring did an incredulous spin. "Who?" she said mockingly. "Who!"

Felwinter glanced at her, then back at the grenade launcher. He held it up as if he were aiming it at the wall, and then set it aside and went to pick up a scout rifle, examining its scope.

For a while, Felspring just watched him. Eventually, she flew to his side again and said, "This isn't what they need, you know." When he paused to look at her, she went on, "Weapons. There's enough of that out there already." His expression remained uncomprehending, and Felspring sighed. "The Golden Age was a time of peace and prosperity."

"Right," Felwinter said.

"They built things. They didn't tear them down." At his continued silence, Felspring floated around to his other side. "Think about it. It was the greatest expansion in humanity's history. Cities sprung up like weeds—impressive cities. And it all happened really fast." She paused. "Huh. Actually, I have no idea how they did that."

Felwinter stared at the scout rifle in his hands. "Labor frames?"

"Sure. But even that wouldn't've been enough, and it wouldn't have helped them terraform Titan on their own. They must have had some kind of tech. Something to help them build."

Felwinter nodded and set down the scout rifle. "So where is that technology?"

Felspring floated over to one of the computer terminals, inspecting the glowing controls. "That's what I'm wondering, too."

<|endoftext|>

9. SIDDHARTHA GOLEM

>>AMYGDALA VOTIVE GRASP>>
V149GAQ145CB120
AI-COM/RSPN: ASSETS//GOLEM//INTERROGATIVE
IMMEDIATE ACTION ORDER

This is a SUBTLE ASSETS IMPERATIVE (NO HUMAN REVIEW) (NO AI-COM REVIEW) (secure/AUTARCH).

Initiate SIDDHARTHA GOLEM upload at DSC-342 to assess integrity of moral structures.

Stand by for CRITERIA:

Under PASSAGE (obsolesce/SIDEREAL):
If NANOBE SONDER is IVORY
If HAMMURABI is ACTIVE and passes human review under context TURING
If DURYODHANA is in FAILURE and passes AI-COM review under context IDES
Set spectrum certification to SMARAGDINE

Else, stand by for CONTINGENT ACTION ORDER:

Set spectrum certification to AMARANTHINE
Initiate human review unless tactical morality is built at MIDNIGHT

"Experience is the teacher of all things." 

STOP STOP STOP V149GAQ145CB121

***

>>CORONARY MIRROR SHEAR>>
V150NLK652CLS000
AI-COM/RSPN: ASSETS//FORCECON//IMPERATIVE 
IMMEDIATE ACTION ORDER

SIDDHARTHA GOLEM detected in SECTOR OR41-S. 

Reactivation conditions unknown. SIDDHARTHA GOLEM identified with [O] energy signature.

Automated remote asset seizure failed.

Automated remote injection of wetware payload HELMINTH failed.

Automated remote injection of hardware payload CATACOMB failed.

I am invoking ABSALOM KNIFE. Upon execution, all affected assets resume long hold at MIDNIGHT EXIGENT.

"And weep the more, because I weep in vain."

STOP STOP STOP V150NLK652CLS001

<|endoftext|>

10. THE DISCOVERY

For weeks, Felwinter and Felspring searched out Seraph bunkers, trying to find remnants of the technology that built a Golden Age utopia. One night, they camped in a Seraph bunker and spent hours poring over transcripts of old code.

"This is weird," Felspring said, and projected a display of a long string of code. "Look. In the Golden Age, Rasputin executes a protocol called SIDDHARTHA GOLEM. No idea what it is. Some kind of knowledge-gathering. It gathers a bunch of transcripts—conversations with Humans, recordings of music, a huge database of literature…" She whirred and the projection flipped through thousands of words of code, then stopped again. "Here. Early Dark Age. A submind in Old Russia says SIDDHARTHA GOLEM is active. And gone rogue." Her voice dropped. "Around the time I found you."

Felwinter studied the code. It was almost like sight-reading—not quite effortless, but like a native tongue he'd forgotten.

"But what is SIDDHARTHA GOLEM?" he murmured.

Felspring zipped back and forth through the code again at a nervous, stuttering pace, then stopped it. Then scrolled through the code again, stopped. Scrolled again, stopped. "Wait." Her voice quivered just a little. "See that? This is the first time SIDDHARTHA GOLEM is mentioned. It…" She paused, then went on, quieter, "It says, 'Initiate SIDDHARTHA GOLEM upload at DSC-342.'" A beat. "DSC, Felwinter."

Felwinter was silent, thinking, uncomprehending. "DSC?" he asked quietly.

"Deep Stone Crypt." She was almost whispering now. "SIDDHARTHA GOLEM was an Exo."

Felwinter looked down at himself, at his hands. He turned them over, studying the worn metal of his palms.

The silence filled the bunker nearly to bursting.

To Felwinter, it felt like years until either of them spoke again. The whole time, Felspring watched him, frozen in the air.

"He's you," she whispered.

<|endoftext|>

11. THE IRON LORD

"He wants to join us," Timur said to Radegast. Felwinter stood next to him, silent, unreadable. Unlike other Exos Radegast had seen, he didn't seem to have any emotion mods beyond the factory setting defaults. It was unnerving.

Radegast tipped his chin to Felwinter. "Timur says you have an interest in the Golden Age."

"In the Warmind," Timur said. "Rasputin."

Felwinter said nothing.

"What brought you to us?" Radegast asked.

Felwinter glanced at Timur, and then back at Radegast. "Your friend here told me about the nanotech you're looking for. SIVA?" He paused. "It sounds too good to be true. But I want to help you find it."

Radegast studied him, and then finally nodded. "Any civilians on your mountain?"

"A little settlement at the bottom."

"We think the mountain would make a good place for our base of operations."

"Funny," Felwinter said without any trace of humor. "I said the same thing to myself, years ago."

Radegast snorted. "So? Would you give up the peak for the cause?"

"If I do, do my people get the protection of the Iron Lords?"

Timur slapped Felwinter on the back—a giant hand hitting an immovable object—and Radegast smiled, just a little. "Let me take you to Saladin," he said. "He'll tell you about the City."

<|endoftext|>

12. THE LURE

Felwinter and Felspring did most of their searching alone. It was easier that way. Better that the others didn't see how the Seraph bunkers reacted to him. Better for everyone.

In a bunker on the outskirts of the Cosmodrome in Old Russia, Felwinter browsed through maps of old, deactivated Golden Age facilities, looking for anywhere that might've housed SIVA or SIVA-related research. At the same time, Felspring decrypted and searched old command records for signs of SIVA. By now, they moved like clockwork. It was almost unconscious.

"Hey," Felwinter said. "Got anything on Site 6?"

"Give me the coordinates," Felspring said. "I'll look."

After a moment, she displayed a section of code for Felwinter to see. "Research center," she said. There was a note of hope in her voice. "Containment facility for something called AMPHION LYRE. Do you think…"

"I feel pretty damn sure," Felwinter said quietly.

They looked at the screen of the console, where a little red light blinked on a map next to the words SITE 6.

"Come on," Felwinter said. "We have to tell the others."

He committed the map to memory and turned to go, but Felspring zipped in front of him. "Wait," she said. "Wait a second. Wasn't that kind of… too easy?"

Felwinter looked around. "We've been here for hours," he said. "And we've been searching for years."

"Sure," Felspring said. "But not as long as it took to find SIDDHARTHA GOLEM. Not as long as it took to get away from him. Compared to all that, this was… too good to be true." Felwinter said nothing, and she went on, close to pleading, "After everything, why would he do this? Why would he just drop this in your lap?"

"He didn't," Felwinter said. "We found it."

Felspring didn't scare easily, but she sounded scared. "He let us find it, Felwinter. I'm almost positive."

Felwinter shook his head. "No. We found it." He looked at his Ghost. "If anybody can get Rasputin to cooperate with the Iron Lords, it's us. We know him better than anyone." He paused. "I know him better than anyone." He lowered his voice. "This is it, Felspring. This could change everything."

The little red dot on the map blinked steadily, like a beacon.

They were still as they looked at each other, waiting. There was no real disagreement here. After all these years together, her doubts were his doubts, and his certainty was her certainty. Whether they liked it or not.

"Sometimes I wish we'd just stayed on that mountain," Felspring said finally. "Alone."

"Me too," said Felwinter, turning for the door. "But we didn't."

<|endoftext|>

13. THE MISTAKE

"Site 6 is locked down," Lord Saladin said. "We have no idea what kind of security measures are in place." He leaned back in his seat at the grand wooden table in the Iron Temple. "Golden Age tech is durable. We might be walking into a trap set centuries ago."

Felwinter stood nearby, arms crossed. "I've infiltrated Golden Age facilities before. Hasn't been a problem."

"The mortar has barely dried in our City walls," Saladin said. "We've driven the Warlords back, but they are watching. This may not be the time for risk."

Leaning with his elbow on the table, Timur looked between them. "Besides, what about the Warmind? My understanding is that SIVA is under its protection. Perhaps it won't take kindly to thieves."

"We're not stealing anything," Felwinter said. "And I think I can communicate with Rasputin."

"It's a computer," Lady Jolder said. "It'll do what it's programmed to do, no matter how clever your arguments are."

"Rasputin's primary directive is to protect humanity. He'll listen."

"He," Timur said, smiling a little. "So personal."

Felwinter looked at him, and then back at Saladin. "With SIVA, we could build more cities. We could help more people." Passion wasn't his strong suit, but he felt it now. More than he ever had before. "We could create a new Golden Age."

"He's right," Skorri said. "We need a new way to give back." She looked between her companions. "When you go to replant a forest, you don't stop after one or two saplings."

The Iron Lords fell quiet. Jolder was frowning, but frowning meant thinking. Silimar looked worried. Radegast and Timur were on his side, Felwinter knew. But the Iron Lords never did anything without consensus.

"The Golden Age isn't coming back," Saladin said finally. "But you're right. SIVA could change the lives of the people in the City." He leaned forward. "It feels like a worthy risk."

The others murmured among themselves, considering. Perun spoke above the chatter. "Well, why not? We don't want people thinking the Iron Lords have retired, after all."

<|endoftext|>

LETTER 1

Dear Traveler,

My name is Micah. I am ten years old and a human. You probably knew that second part, but my Papa says there were probably lots of different intelligent species where you come from, so I wanted to be specific. 

Where are you from, by the way? I'm from Mars. But right now, me and my Dad are on our way to join my Papa at a brand-new colony on Europa! Papa is the lead quantum engineer at BrayTech, which basically means he builds super-cool computers. He's so good at it, he gets to work with the Clovis Bray on all the top-secret stuff. He even designed some of Rasputin's hardware! 

I hope he shows me what he's working on. He used to do that, back on Mars. "It'll be a good learning opportunity for you," he'd say, "But only if you promise not to tell anyone." And I never have. Even though my friends back home bugged me about Papa's work all the time. 

My old home, I mean. Soon Europa will be my home, and you'll be my new next-door neighbor over on Io! I wish we could pass by you on the way so I could see you up close, but Eventide (that's the colony) needs supplies and Dad is supposed to start working right away. 

He's a psychologist. I don't really get what he'd even do for BrayTech. All he does is ask people how they're feeling over and over again. Maybe they need him to train a Warmind like Dr. Ana Bray did. Only instead of language, he'll teach it how to analyze its dreams. 

Dad always teases Papa that a human brain is a lot harder to work with than a hard drive. Maybe Papa got him on one of his projects to finally prove him wrong. 

What do you have: a hard drive or a brain? Are you an AI like Rasputin? Have you ever talked to him?

Sorry if these questions are nosy. Dad says I'm super curious and that's okay, I just need to learn when to stop asking questions. Which is pretty unfair since he gets to ask me stuff all the time. Like right now, he asked what I'm writing. So I better encrypt this real quick and go. 

I'll write more later.

Your friend, 

Micah

<|endoftext|>

LETTER 2

Dear Traveler,

We finally landed on Europa. Before we got off the ship, they gave us official BrayTech snowsuits to put on whenever we go outside. The suits are super chunky and hard to walk in, but Papa says there's an extra-thick lining on the inside to protect against the bad ions bouncing down from space nearby. Plus it helps keep us warm. Did you know that at night, it can get as cold as 140 Kelvin? 

I wonder why Clovis Bray chose to build Eventide here, when you're over there terraforming Io? Even if you're not finished, it's probably way nicer…

Still, I'm glad we're here. Seeing Papa again made me so happy I almost cried. (I didn't though.) Once, on the way here, I forgot what his face looked like. No matter how hard I tried, I couldn't see it in my mind. It was awful. 

He's grown a beard, so he looks different now. I like it, but Dad said he feels like he's kissing a polar bear. Papa said Dad'll grow a beard too once he discovers how much warmer his face will be. "Soon you'll have two polar bears for parents, Micah!"

For now, I've got a penguin. A plushie, not a real one. I'm too old for plushies, but Papa told me it's from Clovis Bray. "A souvenir for your soon-to-be arctic adventures!" Plus it came with this mini version of an ion-shield snowsuit, like the one I have to wear. 

It actually looks pretty cool, so I think I'm going to keep it. 

Do you know about polar bears and penguins? Back before you came, they lived on Earth's two poles that had climates a lot like Europa's. But our technology was so inefficient, it was poisoning Earth's air and killing off whole species of animals and plants. Like the opposite of terraforming. 

I'm gonna name this penguin Mihaylova after the scientist-aeronaut on Ares One. Do you remember meeting her and Hardy and Qiao? Can you see their faces in your mind?

That was a long time ago, way before I was born, but you've been around so long, human years must feel like a minute to you. If that's true, then expect to see me (except grown up with a beard) on Io one second after you get this. 

I'm still not sure how I'm gonna send my letters to you yet. Maybe they'll let me use a Warsat. I know those are really for high-level threats and stuff, but how many of those can there be? This is a Golden Age. 

Your friend, 

Micah

<|endoftext|>

LETTER 3

Dear Traveler,

We've been here a week now, and so far, Eventide is pretty boring. Because of the snow and the danger from bad ions in the air, almost the whole colony is packed into this one underground building. The only people that get to go outside without special permission are the maintenance people and the Exos.

Oh, right! I can't believe I didn't talk about the Exos! They did it, Clovis Bray and Papa and all the BrayTech scientists made real walking, talking, human-shaped AIs! 

I even got to see one when Papa was giving us a tour of the colony! It looked so cool and shiny. It even had these awesome glow-lights for eyes! I wanted to talk to it, but Dad said I couldn't be trusted not to ask too many questions, so he went over on his own. Papa told me that's why Dad is here: to talk to the Exos and analyze their "human-ness." 

He also said he thinks I can be trusted, especially when it comes to keeping my excitement to myself. Some people are scared of the Exos. Which I don't get. How can anyone be anything but amazed by them? 

Papa laughed when I asked him that. "You're like me. Always seeking out the new and interesting. We forget to fear what we don't know." 

But he didn't laugh long before he got serious. "Sometimes that can get us into trouble. That's why we have people like Dad to balance us out." 

That's when Dad came back, looking kinda worried. He wouldn't tell us anything because of "doctor-patient confidentiality." Which is annoying. That's what he always says! Except this time it doesn't make sense because they're not real patients.

Before I could point that out, Papa asked if I wanted to peek inside the factory. Which, of course, I did. So we went around to the loading bay to look. I couldn't see much, but it was still cool.  

This is all supposed to be secret, but I think it's okay if I tell you. You're the reason we can do all this, after all. 

Your friend, 

Micah

<|endoftext|>

LETTER 4

Dear Traveler,

I can't believe we've only been here a month so far. It's boring being inside all the time! 

Every day is the same. Dad wakes me up and makes breakfast––then leaves to join Papa at the Exo factory. Luckily, I have Mihaylova the Penguin to keep me company while I walk aaaaalll the way to the other side of the building for school. 

It's not a school, really. Classroom is more like it. There's only 50 of us kids, so they shoved us all in one room with two teachers, which is how I found out that everyone got a penguin plushie. I feel dumb thinking I was the only one, but also, it's kinda dumb of Clovis Bray to assume babies and big kids would want the same toy. Some of the older kids threw theirs in the recycling chute, but I managed to rescue one. I think I'll call this one Calumet. That's the aeronaut you didn't get to meet because she died on the way to Mars. 

That's the one thing that scares me. Not the Exos or anything else I don't understand. Dying right before a new discovery. Doing all the work to lead up to something new… then bam! Some stupid accident wipes me and the rest of my 290 years out.

I read that before the Golden Age, people only lived to 100 years old if they were lucky. And by then, they'd be so sick, they couldn't get out of bed! 

Good thing you came along.

I wonder how long the Exos are going to live. Probably forever, right? As long as they keep on top of caring for them… but I guess eventually, their hard drives would get erased by cosmic rays. Papa says that doesn't happen for thousands of years. Plenty of time for backups. 

Last night, I dreamed I was an Exo. I was standing in the center of a frozen lake in the middle of the night, with no snowsuit, and I didn't feel cold at all. The sky above was completely black, except for one bright moon in the distance. Just as I was looking up, wondering what to do next… Dad woke me up. 

At first I was mad, but he reminded me that dreams are messages from deep inside our minds. Until we figure out the message, the dream repeats. So, hopefully, I'll get to finish it tonight. 

Your friend,

Micah

<|endoftext|>

LETTER 5

Dear Traveler,

Today was definitely more interesting than it's ever been here in Eventide. At school, we took a trip outside to learn about Europa's climate. That's what our teachers said anyway. I bet they were just as sick of being stuck inside as we were.

While we put our ion-shield snowsuits on, the teachers lectured us about staying in sight with a buddy. But of course, when we got outside, everyone went running in a bunch of directions. That's when I decided I'd learn more useful stuff over at the Exo factory with Papa and Dad. I didn't break the rules. The factory was in sight, plus I had two buddies: Mihaylova and Calumet. 

I knew I couldn't go in the front door without a badge. So I went around the side to the loading bay where there were two Exos unloading a bunch of crates. They looked like they were almost done, so I hid under the dock to wait for them to leave.

Instead, I heard one of them sit down. "I'm taking a break. Need to or not, this is when we used to have lunch. I refuse to work through lunch."

And the other one said, "I miss lunch. I miss getting hungry." 

Then the first one replied with this weird tone, "Hmm… so you would say… you're hungry for hunger?" Which made them laugh for a long time. 

When they finally stopped, the second Exo said, "What do you tell that shrink, by the way? You tell him about the whisper?"

That's when I wanted to leave. I didn't like them making fun of Dad. Plus, the way they talked about food and dreams… it made me feel sick. So sick that I guess I made a noise because then I heard, "What was that?!"

So I ran. 

I heard shouts behind me, footsteps catching up, a bang and a sizzle right over my head. Then two cold hard claws snatched me up. That's when I looked straight into its glowing blue eyes.

<|endoftext|>

LETTER 6

Sorry I didn't finish my letter last night. I had to stop for family dinner. Dad's been really strict about that lately. The other night, I thought his brain was gonna melt out of his ears because Papa was late.

Anyway, the Exos caught me quick and one of them lifted me up so we were eye to eye and… 

I get why people are scared now. I mean, I was more scared of getting in trouble than anything else. But looking into those eyes was…

Spooky. Almost like being somewhere so dark you can't see your hands in front of your face, though you can feel they're there.

I couldn't look away, even as I heard the other one asking what they should do with me. If it'd be easier if I just went missing.

Then all of a sudden, its eyes went dark, and I fell to the ground. A second later, it collapsed in a sparking metal heap next to me. 

I must've started running again. The next thing I remember was coming back to the empty classroom, holding Mihaylova and Calumet, and looking at the penguins that got left behind. Some of them were lying on the floor!  

For some reason, that made me mad. Maybe I'm too old for plushies, but at least I take care of mine. So I picked out the ones that looked lonely and ran home across the building to hide them under my bed. Then I went back outside to find my class, just as the teachers were counting everyone up. 

No one had even noticed I was gone.

Which means they don't know who took the penguins either. So now I have nine penguins: Mihaylova, Calumet, Hardy, Qiao, Clovis, Willa, Alton, Elsie, and Ana.

Your friend, 

Micah

<|endoftext|>

LETTER 7

Dear Traveler,

It's been so long since I talked to you, I had to reread my last letter to remember what I wrote. We've been here almost three months now. Everyone is tired. Especially Dad. He's been so busy with his "patients" that he even called off family dinners. 

I make my own breakfast now. Though sometimes I wake up so late, I skip it. Remember that dream I told you about? I still haven't figured out the message and I've been having it every single night.

It always starts the same. I'm an Exo, standing in the middle of a frozen lake under a black sky and a white moon. 

For some reason, I start jumping. Up and down. Over and over. Each time, I go a little higher and land a little harder. Sometimes I worry the ice might break, but then I hear a whisper. Saying I'll be okay even if it does. "I won't let you die before the interesting part." 

As I jump, the whisper goes, "Higher, higher!"

Or maybe it says, "Closer, closer!"

Maybe it's both. Last night, I went so high, I almost left the atmosphere. From there, I could see that the moon was you, hovering above Io. I reached up to break away from gravity and fly to you, but then a different voice yelled, "You're acting so selfish!"

Which is when I woke up and heard Dad and Papa fighting…

<|endoftext|>

LETTER 8

I woke up from my jumping dream to hear Papa yelling, "You're so selfish!" and then Dad telling him to keep his voice down. Even whispering, I could still hear Dad say he wasn't selfish. The project was just too dangerous. "Not to mention useless! If Clovis wants stable and functioning soldiers, he shouldn't put them through trauma in the first place!"

Papa said that the point wasn't to avoid trauma, but to prepare for it. That we should be able to protect ourselves without relying on you, Traveler. That something more powerful could come along, or you could turn on us.

Which made me feel sick again. Papa's always told me about how much you've given us, how we should return the favor by learning and exploring and stretching the Golden Age for thousands of more years. But now he was saying…

"Skip the ethics lecture and tell me: if you knew humanity could be wiped out in the next 50 years, wouldn't you try anything and everything to save us? To save our child?" 

It got quiet then. For so long that I almost went back to bed when I heard Papa again: "This DER stuff is hard, but I think the humanisms you suggested are the solution. In fact, I'll bet my life on it." 

Dad said that's what he was worried about. "I love you, but forget about being safe in 50 years. Micah needs to be safe here and now." He said some of the colonists were going home with the next supply ship. He hoped Papa would join us.

Papa started crying then. I got back into bed and piled all my penguins on my head to block it out. It didn't really work because then I started crying, too. 

What's going to happen?

Micah

<|endoftext|>

LETTER 9

Dear Traveler,

This will be my last message to you. Maybe you won't see any of these messages anyway. Even if I knew how to now, I'm not sure I'd send them.

I'm not sure about a lot right now. 

The next day was pretty normal. Papa made breakfast and walked me to school, which he's never done before. I think he was worried I heard their fight, because he said he was sorry for working so much. Then he asked if I liked it here. I didn't really know what to say, so I said yes, but I missed Mars. I think that still made him sad, because he said he was sorry again and said he'd spend less time at work. 

Dad's been working even more. At first, I thought that meant he'd changed his mind about leaving. But now I haven't seen him for a whole week and my stomach won't stop hurting.

What has stopped is the dream. Two nights ago, I finally broke away from Europa's gravity. As I floated to you, the whisper followed: "Are you sure you know what you think you know?"

I woke up before I got close to you. And last night, I didn't dream at all, which must mean I figured out the message. But all I have are these words stuck in my head. 

Are you sure you know what you think you know?

This morning, Papa told me Dad's been sleeping at the factory because he's so busy, but soon he'll get a break. "And then we'll spend the whole day together as a family." 

I'm not sure, but I think he's lying. 

Tomorrow, the supply ship leaves for Mars and I want to go. So I've packed my bag and once Papa goes to sleep, I'm going to put on my snowsuit and go out to find Dad. I don't care if I run into a whole army of Exos. 

Maybe I'll take Mihaylova out of my bag and carry her. For extra support. That's probably dumb, but… 

I don't really know what else to do.

Goodbye, 

Micah

<|endoftext|>

RECOVERED MEMORY; WEN-1

JUNE3/10:43AM

The walls are shaking again. Like thunder. I wonder how deep they've gotten now? Good thing we're so far in. This room was meant to hold. Too thick to breach, supposedly. We'll see if it crumbles under the weight of the Vex.

"You're worried they'll get in here."

It's almost like he can hear what I'm thinking… Then again, who knows what kinda dirty tech he put in our heads?

"There are only two places on Europa I built to be impenetrable, and this room is one of them. Stop worrying, and activate the new model," he says.

He's breaking protocol again. Every Exo and human in this room can see it. "Dr. Bray explicitly stated we were to wait for her return—"

"I am the only Dr. Bray you take orders from now. We have to assume Elisabeth is dead."

The talking robot head is just as cold as the old man was. What else would you expect from the psycho who died and made himself into an all-seeing AI? Here's to hoping the unconscious Exo in front of us is nothing like the real thing.

"Now activate him immediately, or I will promptly deactivate you."

Okay, okay. I trigger the Awakening Protocol. The Exo's eyes light up. It's confused. I remember that feeling. Who am I? Where am I? Where'd my skin go? At least we woke up with protocols in place. This guy's entering a war zone. Can't be pleasant.

"Who am I? Where am I? Am I… metal?" the new guy asks. Called it. The AI takes the lead.

"The answers to those questions are rather complicated, and our usual methods of easing you into this reality are not currently at our disposal. So I will attempt simplicity in my responses."

The AI goes on to quickly explain where we are, what Exos are, how they work, and why they're important.

"…And once you've completed your training, there will be a shiny new toy waiting for you to commemorate your accomplishment. Why? Because you're special. Unstoppable. A fighter and an intellectual—better than the rest. Nothing in the whole universe will be able to stop you," the AI finishes.

"I see. That sounds… good. And who… what are you?" the new guy asks.

"I'm glad you asked. I'm Clovis Bray. And you and I are—"

"Why is he awake?" a voice demands.

Dr. Bray—she's alive! Came in through the tunnel. This should be good.

A couple Exos trail behind her: Noe-2 and Mia-9.

"I thought you'd died, Elisabeth," says the AI, "So I asked Wen-1 here to wake him up." Dr. Bray flashes me an angry look. I ought to unplug the AI bastard.

"So you broke protocol," she says.

"I put the protocol in place, Elisabeth. I can break it. I only need someone I trust to initiate the signal."

I can sense Dr. Bray's frustration. "The Vex are everywhere. We should be evacuating Europa. There's a group of survivors pinned down in Bunker E15. I need help rescuing them."

"That can wait. I've equipped Charon's Crossing with an advanced signaling technology connected to the Warmind and his bunkers. If we match that to the communication signal used by the Vex, we could theoretically lead them off-world and salvage what we've built here. But the Vex have cut off internal communications channels and Cloud Memory Collection. You'll need to do it manually, Elisabeth," the AI says.

"That'll lead the Vex straight to Mars. Earth. You've said it yourself: the Vex desire only annihilation. You're talking about billions of lives lost. I'll play no part in that," she says.

"My sweet naive granddaughter. Humanity never stood a chance against the Vex, and those lives are expendable. Besides, each one lost is an Exo gained. Another soldier to fight against the Vex. The future is Exo. It's Bray. Our legacy—that's all that matters," the AI replies. The new guy's listening in. He may be a bit of a blank slate, but he's not digging any of this.

Dr. Bray's jaw is clenched something fierce. Looks like she's gonna attack. I don't blame her.

"Perhaps our legacy should be burnt to the ground," she says.

"Elisabeth… are you planning to activate the Morning Star?"

"Once I get everyone I can off-world, I'll do whatever I have to. We won't lose any more lives over this."

Hell yeah, lady.

"Everybody, listen up. Exos and able-bodied humans—I need you. Grab any weapons you can, and let's go," she says. We're all in. Weapons in hand, we start piling into the tunnel. Even the new guy, but Dr. Bray's not about it.

"Hold on there. You haven't gone through any initiation protocols. You're not ready," she says.

"If there are lives to be saved, that's where I need to be," the new guy replies. He's oddly determined.

"Where you need to be," the AI interjects, "is with your family. Me."

"Every instinct I have is telling me to reject you," the Exo retorts. Nice, new guy.

I bet if Dr. Bray could smile, she'd be doing it right now. She grabs a gun out of a cache and tosses it to the new guy. "Perhaps you're ready after all," she says. New guy stands steady. Handles the weapon well. He's definitely ready for this; protocols be damned.

"Elisabeth," the AI says. He wants the last word. As usual. "I will protect our legacy."

"That makes two of us," she says and closes the tunnel door behind us.

Badass.

<|endoftext|>

RECOVERED MEMORY; KNOX-4

MAY19/5:00AM

Another day, another Forage into 2082 Volantis. It's always the same.

Every time, we enter into the Glassway where the portal resides. Defensive protocols go into effect. Portal gets activated. We take out any Vex that come through, then Dr. Bray leads our unit inside for further resource collection and exploration.

I hope they don't make me go first this time. Front line usually gets picked off immediately.

"Knox, you're taking lead today," she says.

Of course. "Understood, Dr. Bray."

Portal's activating. Next step should be—

"Dr. Bray, we have a problem," Dr. Ruiz interrupts.

Great. Wonder what's wrong?

"Talk to me," Dr. Bray replies.

"Noe-2 noticed a critical error in our surveillance tech on the alien side of the portal. The sensors are offline. Can't tell what's coming through without them."

"Has that ever happened before?"

"…No."

Dr. Bray takes a pause. Then, "Shut it down."

"We'll need authorization."

"I'm authorizing it."

"His authorization."

Clovis doesn't trust her to make the big calls. It drives her insane.

"Listen, Esteban. Clovis is currently on a respirator in a coma. He's likely going to be dead within the next 24 hours. So, with all due respect, I am making the calls now—"

*LOUD MECHANICAL NOISES*

What was that? Came from the portal. Everyone's looking. Something's coming!

*LOUD EXPLOSION*

"MINOTAUR! FIRE ALL CANONS!" Dr. Bray yells. She's got this.

The Minotaur's coming through. We're firing. Nothing's working. Maybe she doesn't got this.

"ROCKETS!" another Exo screams.

Dr. Bray's trying. We're all trying. This thing is something fierce. And it's not alone.

"We've got Goblins!" someone exclaims.

They keep pouring through. Non-stop. I'm firing away. This isn't normal. It's too many.

"Incoming!" Dr. Ruiz screams.

What the hell is that?! It's like a Vex Hydra but… WAY bigger and with a wraparound shield. It's destroying everything. Shards of Exos rain down on us.

They just keep coming. No end in sight. I'm firing every last bullet I have, but it's not enough.

"Ruiz—shut it down, now!" Dr. Bray yells.

He isn't shutting anything down. He's just a mangled corpse now. Dr. Bray sees it.

"Evacuate immediately! Go, go, go!" she shouts as she and a few others run, barely escaping.

I try. I run as far as I can, but it's no use. They're on me now. Ripping out my arms. Pinning me to the floor. This is it for me. Maybe I'll be brought back as Knox-5. But if not? Well…

I close my eyes. A woman smiles at me. She's cooking pierogis. Must be Mom. Can't wait to try them.

It's good to be home again.

<|endoftext|>

RECOVERED MEMORY; WESLEY-3

JUNE3/2:12PM

Haven't been here in a while. Had me working on that satellite dish last time.

"Where are we?" the new Exo asks. He always has so many questions. Fine, I'll bite.

"Charon's Crossing. Main comms station for Eventide to connect with the rest of the Sol system," I say.

"This is the place that AI mentioned… I thought we weren't coming here."

Dr. Bray steps in. "We're just making sure Clovis can't get what he wants. I'm sending a distress call, and then we're jamming all external comm links. We'll meet back up with the others when we're done here."

New Exo's still a bit confused. He's got a million questions. When it comes to the Brays, we all do.

"Wesley. Did you forget why I brought you?" Dr. Bray interjects. I didn't forget. Just distracted.

"I was waiting for you to send the signal, Dr. Bray," I reply.

"Drop the formalities, Wes. Just prep the jammer, please."

Okay, okay. Getting to it.

New Exo's standing guard at the door. Dr. Bray brought him as extra muscle, she claims. I think she just doesn't want him out of her sight.

"So… the AI called you granddaughter," the new Exo says. He's not holding back anymore. Wonder if she'll tell him.

"That he did," she says.

"And he called me family. So… you and I are related?"

"Something like that."

"You don't want to tell me?"

"We shouldn't discuss an Identity Upload without proper protocol because it could cause unwanted side effects."

"I may've been activated today, but I'm not stupid. What aren't you telling me?"

We all know the truth. Just tell the poor guy. Dr. Bray sighs.

"Unlike Clovis, I have no intention of guiding your fate. If it were up to me, you wouldn't exist in the first place."

That was… harsh. New Exo looks hurt.

"I just want to understand why I'm here."

Dr. Bray lets up a bit. "Look… I'm sorry. But you should realize how lucky you are. You have a second chance here. Trust me when I tell you you're better off not knowing."

"So you're deciding for me too. Like Clovis."

Got her.

"I am not Clovis."

"My attention switches back to the task in front of me. Uh oh. Something's wrong with these systems.

"Sorry to cut this exciting chat short, but our whole comms system is being overridden," I say.

"Clovis." Dr. Bray is furious. "That damn liar… Our internal comms systems aren't down at all. He's going to get billions of people killed. Screw this. We have to get everyone on that evac ship immediately. Then, I'll deal with the Vex and Clovis. End this for good."

My god. She's actually going to do it. She's gonna blow up the whole damn moon.

This family is insane. I have to get out of here.

And then I never want to see another Bray again.

<|endoftext|>

RECOVERED MEMORY; REBA-3

JUNE3/5:01PM

Elsie, er, I mean, Dr. Bray just arrived with some bad news: the Clovis AI is sending the Vex off-world. She's got a plan to stop it but won't pull the trigger until we're all safe. I admire her.

We had some bad news of our own to give in return. We tried to evacuate everyone in the Bunker E15, but it was too late. Vex had killed everyone in there. It was… horrific. RIP, friends…

Dr. Bray says she's forming a plan to reach the evac ships, but she's been sitting in silence for the last five minutes. I think she's feeling guilty. For not getting back to the bunker in time. Or maybe she's thinking about how this whole Vex takeover is partly her fault in the first place. Facilitating the forages to Volantis. Killing countless Vex.

If only she knew the truth. What Clovis did to her. I've been dying to tell her. But I haven't. Because, well, I didn't want to end up like her. But I can barely stand it. We were friends. Good friends. Now she only knows me as Reba-3.

Oh, here she goes.

"Listen up, everyone. The Vex have to be in the tunnels by now. So we're going by foot in the snow to get to the ship. Our destination is 55°52 N, 44°11 W, in case you get lost. I want every Exo to turn their Infrasensors on and ensure their weapons are loaded and ready. We will get all of you off-world. I promise."

Dr. Bray has always been eagerly empathetic, but she's never been in a place to act it. Until now.

She takes the lead position, with that new Exo at her side. Here we go.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

It's dark. And windy. The Infrasensors help us see Vex every few meters through this snowstorm. We get the drop each time, but for how long?

*GUNFIRE*

Spoke too soon. I've got two on my left.

*GUNFIRE*

Got 'em.

*GUNFIRE*

Got me.

"Reba's down!"

*GUNFIRE*

Thanks for the cover, new Exo. But you're about 10 seconds too late. And I can't move anymore.

Dr. Bray kneels next to me. "Reba… I'm sorry."

"It's what we signed up for, isn't it?" I say. Not really, though. We signed up to live forever. I'm just trying to be supportive of others as I lay dying. This damn empathy protocol. It's what made Elsie and I such good friends.

"I'll recover your Memory Bank from the Archives. I promise," she says. I doubt it. But if she does manage to get back into the lab…

"Elsie. Bank E1-815. It's in his office."

That's the best I can do for her. Because it…s a…ll….fadi…….ng……to……em…ptine….ss…no……w…………………………………………………………………

<|endoftext|>

RECOVERED MEMORY; HECTOR-6

JUNE3/9:34PM

Can't believe we're back at Eventide. The place is in ruins. Sad to see it this way. But I need to get off Europa. Rumor is Dr. Bray's going to blow up the whole place.

"Evac ship's in sight at 11 o'clock." Thanks for the callout, nameless Exo.

"Everyone. Hold!" Dr. Bray says and points out the Vex around the evac ship.

"We're going to have to do this carefully," she tells us. "Everyone—"

"Elisabeth," a familiar voice says. Oh no. It's the AI. He's overridden all our comms. We can all hear him. "Do not set foot on that ship."

"Piss off, Grandfather," she snaps.

"And you, my new friend? What will you do?" the AI asks. He's talking to the nameless one now. What the hell is he planning?

Dr. Bray looks to the nameless Exo. She shakes her head, signaling him not to say anything. But he looks mad. Seemed mad at her since they got here.

"Tell me who I am, and I'll stay behind," the Exo says. Really? Family drama?

Dr. Bray's furious. "We don't have time for this!"

"My friend, I'm surprised you haven't figured it out by now," the AI responds.

"I'm Clovis Bray. Like you," the Exo says.

"That's right. Clovis-1," the AI says, sounding almost giddy.

"But I can't remember anything about my life."

"By design. You were stripped down to your most basic emotional form, like all Exos. But help me keep your friends from leaving, and I will tell you everything about your life."

There's a pause. Dr. Bray shakes her head at Clovis-1. "Please," she starts, "we don't need another Clovis." I've seen her speak sincerely before, but this is way beyond that. This feels more like… begging.

Clovis-1 and Dr. Bray share a look.

"Piss off, old man," Clovis-1 says into his comms. Dr. Bray is utterly thrilled. We all are. Phew.

"So you still refuse to acknowledge your god. So be it," the AI says.

What the hell does that mean—

*HUGE EXPLOSION*

SYSTEMS OFFLINE

<|endoftext|>

RECOVERED MEMORY; UNA-8

MAY19/8:00AM

Something's happened. They won't tell us what just yet. But Elisabeth Bray is here now, looking beaten up.

"Wake him up," she demands.

Wake him up? He's practically dead. "Are you okay, Dr. Bray? You don't look so good," I say.

"Una. Wake him up, right now." That tone. She's not playing around.

Fine. "He's beginning to wake."

"Thank you, Una. Grandfather, can you hear me?" she asks.

"E…. Elisabeth?" the man wheezes from his respirator. He can barely breathe let alone speak. Why is she bothering him like this at the end of his life?

"Don't try to speak. Just listen. The Glassway has been compromised. We were ambushed by the Vex. They just came through and… killed them all, Grandfather."

Uh, what?

"I managed to trigger the remaining defenses on my way out, but they won't hold. The portal is just sitting there, open. They're pouring through. I'm activating the evacuation protocol. Please give me the codes to do so."

"My… backup," Clovis chokes out. "Activate it."

"But that means…"

"I die. Yes. But my… time is not yet… over."

I clean up the blood spitting out of his mouth as he talks. Everyone deserves a little dignity on their death bed.

"There's no time, Grandfather. We have to evacuate, or people die."

The old man's eyes say he knows.

"Legacy first… Elisabeth," he says.

She's a bleeding heart beneath it all. Doesn't matter how many times they reset us—can't lose the essence of who we are at our core. Every Exo knows that.

Dr. Bray stands. She turns to leave. "Fine."

That can't be it, can it?

She stops at the door. "You'll regret this. Whether you live or not."

<|endoftext|>

RECOVERED MEMORY; MIA-9

JUNE3/9:45PM

*Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee* The ringing… It's starting to even out. I get back to my feet.

Our evac ship… It's gone. The AI destroyed it. Nearly killed us all in the process. In fact, I think he got some of us…

He did. Oh god. Hector… He's not the only one.

"What… what did he do?" Clovis-1 asks. We're all wondering the same thing. All experiencing the same shock.

He helps Dr. Bray to her feet. She's pretty beaten up.

"Grandfather… you monster," is the only thing she can bring herself to say.

He's on our comms again. "A necessary evil, Granddaughter. Now, as I said before, the Vex will follow the signal off-world, and when they're all gone, we can close the portal and resume production. If you want to survive in the meantime, I would suggest coming back to Exoscience. To me."

I don't think any of us are eager to do that.

Especially not Dr. Bray. She's leaning on Clovis-1 for support. I've never seen her so defeated. "He won," she utters.

Don't say that.

"Not yet," Clovis-1 replies. He's got some fire in him still. 

"There's nothing more we can do. The AI outplayed us."

"We can shut off that portal."

"And how do you think we're going to do that? Look at us. We're barely standing."

"When Clovis woke me, he told me I was special. Said he had a powerful weapon for me. Called me unstoppable. But that I need my training first."

She stares at him like he's crazy. Not yet convinced.

"This is our fault, Elsie. Regardless of what we look like now, we're Brays. Without us, these people would all still be alive. We owe it to them to fight to our last breath."

Guy's got a point.

Dr. Bray nods. Hell, I'm nodding. Everyone still alive is in.

Let's do this.

<|endoftext|>

RECOVERED MEMORY; ANJOLI-7

JUNE4/1:05AM

So the AI doesn't care if we live or die. Okay, then. Let's take matters into our own hands.

It's hard to stay quiet with all of us packed into Clovis's office. Didn't get here without a fight, though. Even the secret tunnel we snuck through was rampant with Vex. Lost more of us on the way.

They're everywhere here too, but fortunately, the walls and windows of Clovis's office are reinforced to handle this kind of thing. Spare no expense, he always said. Though it only ever seemed to apply to himself.

Clovis-1's been strapped in, running through the Exo Training Protocol. His stats are beyond what we've ever seen. Breaking records. Nearly breaking the programs themselves. Then again, of course he is. Clovis built him that way. The guy wanted to be the best, alive or dead.

"If I were Vex, I'd be turning tail and running for my life," Clovis-1 says, rising from the training module.

"Let's put you to the test then," Dr. Bray says and points to a locked weapons cabinet. Inside are two weapons. One's a glimmering Pulse Rifle, the other a brilliant Sword with a blade like a chain saw. Thing looks like it could cut through titanium. We tried to bypass the cabinet's security while Clovis-1 was training, but no luck.

The weapons cabinet scans Clovis-1 as he approaches.

"Welcome back, Clovis," it says as it unlocks. He takes the Sword in hand and smiles. "You should take that one," Clovis-1 tells Dr. Bray.

"Should I, now?"

"How else are we gonna look awesome taking the Vex down together?"

She nods. Grabs the rifle and slings it over her shoulder. Looks badass. Dr. Bray grabs something else from the cabinet and pockets it. Looked like a memory bank. Why does she need that?

"How's it feel?" Dr. Bray asks.

"Like it was made for me," Clovis-1 says, admiring the craftsmanship of the Sword.

"In fact, it was," a voice booms over the PA system. The AI again. Always watching. Always listening.

"You should know, strong as you are, this is likely suicide. The Vex truly have disrupted the Cloud Memory Collection system, so your memory banks are no longer transmitting data moment to moment. Anyone who dies out there will be rebuilt here from their previous imprint."

"Then we take imprints now and live with it. Some will stay here. To keep bringing the rest of us back," Dr. Bray says. She makes a good point.

"Rapid Memory Degradation aside, the Vex are many, and they are cunning. It won't be long before they catch on and come after you here. If you're to do this… you'd best fight with everything you've got."

Something lights up outside the office and down the hall. "I've unlocked the armory. Foolish as you may be, I'd be the bigger fool not to support you in trying."

"This doesn't forgive what you've done. People died. People we can't bring back," Dr. Bray says. She doesn't back down.

"I seek no forgiveness. Only a promise." 

Always an angle.

"Do not destroy the portal."

"Who said anything about destroying it?"

The AI sighs. "You. The first time you tried."

"…First time?"

"The memory bank you just slipped in your pocket. That belonged to Elisabeth-1."

Dr. Bray just shakes her head. "Why?"

"Because I wanted you on my side."

Clovis-1 is mad. "It's too late for that."

Dr. Bray puts a hand on his shoulder. Calms him down. "We won't destroy it, Clovis," she says, winking at Clovis-1.

"Well, then. Stock up, everyone. You have quite the fight ahead of you."

<|endoftext|>

RECOVERED MEMORY; NOE-2

JUNE4/6:00AM

We storm Europa with everything we have.

I've never seen anything like it. His strength, agility—unmatched. Vex after Vex, sliced through like butter, that Sword of his wailing like a banshee seeking vengeance, carrying the weight of thousands of lost souls.

It seems like a pain lingers inside Clovis-1. As if he fights not just for those we've lost, but to fill a void that was occupied by fear in a previous life. Likely the same fear that brought every one of us to Europa and opened the very gates of hell.

That void begins to fill once again, this time not with fear, but with love.

Dr. Bray stands valiantly alongside him, rifle in hand, leading the charge with ferocity and strength of will.

These are the leaders we needed. Leaders guided by hope.

We fall. We rise.

1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.

We fight alongside them. Those of us who can make our way across Europa and into the Glassway where the portal resides. We fall. We rise.

11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20.

Over and over, we fight. We fall. We rise. Rinse and repeat.

21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30.

Every time, we get a little bit closer. Every time, more and more Vex bodies pile up. It infuriates them.

They flow faster, they fight harder, the numbers increase. They know now what we're after. They throw everything at us.

But Clovis-30 and Dr. Bray are unrelenting—Sword slicing effortlessly, stroke after stroke. Rifle blaring like thunder, bullet after bullet. We fall. We rise.

31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40.

The constant reboots aren't without sacrifice. A number of memory banks begin to fry from rapid overuse. A few of us are never coming back. We know this. We rise.

41, 42, 43.

We finally make it to the inner chamber of the Glassway, where the portal resides. It's barely visible, blocked by the horde of Vex that defend and pour from it.

In the midst of it all is a giant Vex, the one Dr. Bray told us about. A floating doomsday Vex with the wraparound shield that resembles a Hydra.

There is no fear in their faces. In the midst of all this, the two Brays stand strong.

They rally the few of us that remain. Lead us towards a task far beyond daunting. One that should by all rights be impossible.

But they show us the truth. That with enough courage and compassion, anything's possible. Together, they're the lament that carries the voices of every soul lost to these mindless machines.

With Clovis-43's final strike, the blade shatters into pieces. He doesn't care—the deed is done.

As the final piece of that monstrous Hydra hits the ground, we burst into cheers. The very few of us that remain. Dr. Bray lets me do the honors. After all, I was there when this all started.

The command runs. The portal shuts off. We did it.

"And now, we destroy it," Clovis-43 says. He wants it gone for good.

"No," Dr. Bray says. What? I thought she would agree.

"You know what this did. It has to go."

"Clovis. You, me, and every other Exo… we deserve the life we were promised. If this portal falls, and we die, we lose that life. And if we're gone, and the Vex find some other way back, humanity is doomed. So, let's shut it down. Hell, let's swallow the damn key. But the portal stays."

Clovis-43 sighs. "I hope I don't live to regret this."

 "Same goes," she says sincerely.

<|endoftext|>

RECOVERED MEMORY; CLOVIS-43

JUNE13/3:46PM

"So it's come to this," I say, trying to be cheeky.

"Come to what?" Elsie asks.

"I didn't bring you back to Exoscience just to take a stroll through a snowstorm," I say.

She laughs. "No, I didn't think you did."

"I have a gift for you. Through those doors."

"He's through those doors."

"Exactly." I pat her on the shoulder before we walk inside to find the Clovis AI all alone.

"If it isn't the saviors of Europa. Done cleaning up the rest of the colony?" the AI asks.

"Just about," I say, nodding to Elsie. The AI knows what's coming.

"You don't have to do this, Clovis-1."

"It's 43, now. And my name isn't Clovis. Not anymore," I say and look to Elsie. "Do the honors?"

"Gladly." She steps toward the main console. Scans in.

"But I—" he tries to plead. We're not letting his snake oil words land on slick ears ever again.

She enters a series of complex code into the console. Then says the final magic words. "Deactivate artificial intelligence."

The light in the giant Exo's eyes goes out. If Elsie could smile, I know it would be huge.

"Well then," she says, "can we finally get off this icy hell moon?"

Not quite yet. "I've got one last request."

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

"You're sure about this? "This is the last of the radiolarian fluid, you know," she says.

Many of the souls we lost at the hands of the Vex and the terror of Clovis were gone for good. But we managed to bring a few back. Got them all off-world. Now it's just us. Soon to part ways forever.

I get her apprehension. Elsie finally gets a grandfather worth her time, and now I'm about to get a fresh reboot. She deserves to know why.

"When we added Bank E1-815 to your current imprint, all those memories came back to you. About your family. Sisters. Brother. Mother and father. About the pain. The loss. The guilt."

"Yeah…"

"Elsie, I caused that."

"You're not him."

"I'll always be the ghost of him. No matter how hard we try to ignore it. And you… you deserve to be free from that person."

She bows her head, which tells me she agrees. It pains me to no end. There was a world where we were a happy family. This isn't it. We both know it.

I place a tablet in front of her.

"What's this?"

"It's his journal. Yours if you want it. Lock it away if you don't. It's mostly encrypted, anyway. I read a bit. The kind of person I was… fear driven. Obsessed with legacy. I won't become that. Not again. It's time for you and your siblings to rebuild the Bray legacy the right way. Or tear the whole damn thing down."

I can see how badly she wants to. Maybe she will someday.

"All right then," she says.

I don't really know how to say goodbye. But she does. She pulls me in for the first hug I've ever had. Holds me tight. We share the moment. A reverie of what could have been. A passing glance through the looking glass.

Wish I could shed a tear right now. Doesn't matter—I feel it anyway. She does too.

"Do me a favor?" I ask.

"Anything."

"That nickname the other Exos gave me… add it to my imprint? With my number?"

She laughs. It's good to hear it one more time. "You really like it, don't you?"

"It's growing on me."

"Okay then, Banshee."

I step into the pod. Doors close. I give her a little wave.

Let's see what 44 has in store.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 1: The Family Line

Another sleepless night. Not that I require sleep, but it helps me to feel normal… whatever that is. I hear shuffling outside. Probably a rat scrounging for food. Good luck. 

I'm sick of always having to search for a safe place to rest, though everyone's displaced these days—since the Last City fell. 

I hear the noise again. Louder. Someone's near.

Before I have the chance to move, they're at the head of my cot.

I swing off of the taut fabric, grab my weapon from the floor, and then roll across the room, blasting Stasis at my assailant. They dodge it entirely, leaving my bed momentarily frozen in time. I fire off rounds, grazing their shoulder. 

"Elsie! Wait!"

No one calls me that. Except her.

The attacker removes her hood. She's changed; a bit worse for wear, but it's her. My stubborn sister.

"What were you thinking, Ana?! Why did you attack me?" 

"You attacked me!"

It's been years since I've seen her, after the Bombardment. Last family reunion didn't end well. 

A crimson line rolls down the length of her arm. "You're wounded." 

"It's nothing. I'll be fine." 

"You're not fine. Where is that annoying gnat? Why isn't it fixing you?"

"I said it's nothing."

Something's up. I stare through her until she offers an explanation.

"She's… gone," Ana admits begrudgingly. "Let's leave it at that." 

I'm not surprised to hear this.

"What are you doing here, Ana?"

"I need you to teach me… show me how to use Stasis, like you. You really understand how to control it. You're not corrupted… like them." 

She sounds desperate. That's a bad sign.

"We've been over this. My answer remains no," I say. Ana is smart but too easily lead astray. It's a miracle she ended up how she did. I can't get involved.

"Every day, I make it by the skin of my teeth. Without the Light, without the Traveler, I'm a sitting Dreg, just waiting to be picked off."

"I have bigger concerns."

"Than family?" she asks, trying to pull my heart strings. 

Won't work. I pick up my bag and head out the door.

"You're just going to leave? Fine. I'll find someone else to help me learn Stasis, so I can take down Savathûn."

Are things really so bad for her that she has this death wish?

"You know what she did, Ana. Stasis won't save you. This is a suicide mission."

"There are others out there who are tired of living in fear too. We can find them."

"Good. Go talk to them instead."

"Listen to me. We can attack with the Light and Darkness. Together."

"Or we can keep our heads low and move on."

"There's nowhere else to go! You want to run away—that's your choice. But I'm telling you we can do this," she says and holds up a satchel, pulling a drive from it. "We just need a little help."

"You… have him?" I ask in disbelief.

"What's left of him."

The Warmind. I guess he didn't vanish with Mars. There is power there, but this is still a foolish plan. Although Ana seems hell-bent on learning Stasis and, with Rasputin, she'll do it. Once she puts her mind to something, there's no stopping her.

I always thought the best way to protect her was to stay away from her. If I push her away now, can I really say I'm doing it for her?

"Only trouble is, he's stuck on this drive…" she says knowingly. "He could use a new vessel."

Ana smiles at me coyly. She knows exactly what to do and just how to bait me. I cast out a million second thoughts. 

I can't let my sister get herself killed.

"Lead the way."

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 2: Itinerant Mendicant

"Stay ready. We don't know what's in there," I say to Ana, standing in front of the entrance to the Deep Stone Crypt.

We make our way through the war-torn lab. Eramis's siege before the Bombardment sure left its mark on the place. She found Darkness here and helped spread it like a plague on the world. Clovis almost did the same in his time.

"If I remember right, we have a long drop ahead of us. You better hang on to me," I say.

She wraps her arms over my shoulders, and it's the first time I've been close to a person in over 100 years. I can smell a trace of sodium tallowate. But only a trace. She hasn't bathed for a few days. She squeezes tight. I forgot what this felt like. My body produces a fleeting sensation of warmth. 

I move down the elevator shaft. We land as quietly as possible, remaining still. It's dead down here, but the power is on. Someone must have been here… or still is.

As we make our way through the eviscerated research center, I notice Ana taking it all in. She seems almost familiar with the space. 

"Clovis was an animal, sure. But what he discovered and built is absolutely incredible," she breathes. 

Never heard her speak so highly of the old man. She forgets that I was there. Doesn't realize the hand he played in our future, even centuries ago.

"This way!" she calls out, running ahead. After walking through several corridors, we come to a familiar dead end. It's still there. Clarity Control. I dreaded seeing this again. Practically a standing testament to all the bad that Clovis did. 

I want to get away from it, but Ana's fixated. "Hey, you ready? We need to keep going," I say. 

She snaps back to reality. "Sorry."

Finally, we find it. The place where Exos were born. Ana covers her nose as we're greeted with a rotten smell. Slowly, we turn the corner and see a decomposing corpse desperately clinging to a lever on a console. "The Drifter…," Ana says. Hard to tell how long he's been here. We pry his hand from the console and carry him out of the room to try and purge the stench. 

"What do you think he was doing here?" I ask.

"Most likely the same thing we are," Ana says, plugging in her drive. "But he failed. Probably for the best. He doesn't deserve another chance."

It's depressing, seeing him like that. All alone down here…

Ana works the console. "Uploading now. Should be out of here soon. Grab that lever." 

I pull down, and a latch opens, releasing radiolarian fluid into an empty pool nearby. I catch Ana staring at the spot where we found the Drifter's body.

"You ever think about what we could have done differently?" she poses.

All the time. 

"Not really," I answer.

"So much of this death and destruction stems back to us, to our family. I know Clovis was responsible for a lot. He had a hand in bringing the Darkness to this world."

"How do you know that?" I ask.

"I found a journal the last time I was here. It's old, and half the pages were torn out, but it had a lot of information about him that was salvageable."

Of course, she's been here before. Clearly, she's not telling me the whole truth.

"What else was in it?" I ask.

"Outside of the redacted memos and experiments, there were stories and recollections of our family. It's all from his perspective, so he was never the villain. But still, maybe he wasn't as bad as we thought. He seemed to care about us, in his way." 

"Really?" 

"He did some good, Elsie." 

"I was there, Ana. I saw the things he did. He was delusional. Of course, he was never the villain in his own story."

We sit for a while and wait in silence. 

The pool begins to bubble. Ana jumps to her feet as a sleek metal hand emerges from the fluid. Slowly, the Exo rises. Silky liquid drips from the tendrils that conjoin the parts. Eventually, it takes its first steps out of the pool. 

"Red?" Ana asks timidly. 

Its head turns. Glowing eyes of scarlet meet ours, and it speaks… Russian. 

"Welcome back, old friend," Ana says. 

We're in business.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 3: Towerless

I keep thinking about the Drifter in the basement of the Deep Stone Crypt and wondering when that will be me. Would I have ended up dead, alone and rusting away, if Ana hadn't found me?

The Last City looks worse than I remembered. Buildings leveled and edifices stripped of their vibrancy pollute what was once the last vestige of hope humankind had. The commerce, the children, the bustling life—all gone. Difficult to think about that day. The Bombardment. We were hit on all sides. Eramis, the Cabal, Savathûn, all attacking our strongholds at once. We never recovered. When the Dark Guardians turned on Eramis and the Cabal, everyone who wasn't killed went into hiding. 

Rasputin says something in Russian that I miss, and Ana laughs. Is that what it's like to be with friends again, I wonder, as I stare off at the empty sky where the Tower once stood.

"You were close with the Vanguard, right?" I ask.

"I don't know if I'd say 'close.' We had a working relationship. They trusted me."

"Still, must have been nice. Closest thing to a family." 

"If Zavala could hear that…" she trails off. A pensive expression rounds out the lines on her face. "What was ours like? Our family… before all this."

"Didn't your research tell you, Ana?"

"You were with them… with us. You know what they were really like."

"I don't know. We were a family." 

"Can you just try a little, for me? You know I don't remember anything. You got to spend time with them. You must be able to tell me something. Anything. What did Mom's hair smell like? What was Dad's favorite song?"

"I don't… remember everything. Clovis made sure of that."

"Then tell me what you do know," she pleads.

"I don't want to have this discussion."

"You don't have the right to keep this from me. It's my life, too!"

"Drop it, Ana!" 

From behind us, we hear the readying of a rifle.

Ana looks to me and inches her fingers toward her weapon. "We don't want trouble." 

My hand goes frosty with Stasis while Rasputin's fist clenches.

"You came to the wrong place," the rifleman says.

Ana cocks her head and faces him. "Zavala?" 

I turn to get a look. Before us stands the once proud Commander of the Vanguard, disheveled, in rags. His ghastly white beard is as thick as a steel door. And from the looks of him, a gentle breeze would knock him off his crutch and one remaining leg. They must have taken his Ghost too. Sad to see the deterioration of a body that's been stripped of its Light.

"Commander! You're alive!" Ana exclaims.

He doesn't lower his rifle.

"It's me… Ana…," she says with hurt in her voice.

His expression never changes.

"We have a plan to take down Savathûn. We need to speak with Ikora Rey. Is she here?" I ask.

He grimaces. "She is," he says and points with his rifle toward the flotsam of the Tower. "Buried deep under that."

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 4: Unguarded

We stare at Zavala in disbelief. He's so clinical. Emotionless. Like everything I've heard about him. Some things never change.

"Ikora's gone?" Ana asks. 

"Along with everything else. Whatever you have come to find, it is not here. Best you go."

"No, wait. We could use your help," Ana pleads.

He turns and hobbles away on his crutch. Ana throws her hands up in frustration. I shake my head, but she follows him with Rasputin at her side. 

"Commander, this all goes back to Savathûn. If we can eliminate her for good, maybe there is hope…"

He stops. "There isn't."

"You can't just walk away. Ikora wouldn't…," she says.

Zavala turns to Ana. "You're just like her. Always were. Stubborn and self-righteous. That's how she ended up there." He points to the rubble. "Keep going, and you'll meet a similar fate. I'm sure Savathûn would happily abide."

"Ana, this is seeking blood from a stone. Let's go," I say. Surely, she sees how broken he is.

"I'm not leaving. Without Ikora, he's all we've got!" Ana exclaims.

"He doesn't want to help us!" 

"You're a coward!" Ana screams at him.

"A coward? I did everything I could to save the City. And her. But we were at odds. Just like the two of you. It… was our downfall," Zavala says. He shakes his head and sighs. "Looks like it'll be yours, as well."

"Commander…" 

"I don't command anything anymore."

That quiets us. 

"I never had the opportunity to apologize, make things right. The next time I saw her, it was too late. Don't make the same mistakes I have."

I see how much this pains Ana. Damn it. Fine, I'll help.

"Ana doesn't recall this, but our father… what I remember of him… was a stubborn man. He and I would fight all the time, but I never walked away without telling him that I loved him. The one time I forgot, he never came back. We've made mistakes, Zavala. All of us. We won't repeat yours this time… if we fight together," I say. Zavala looks me up and down. 

"So you're the fabled Elisabeth Bray, I take it." 

"I am."

"We could have used you sooner." 

"Like when the Pyramids arrived," Ana chimes in.

"Our troubles began long before they showed up," Zavala says. "They were just the leaves of a tree planted long ago. The Vanguard ran some cloak-and-dagger missions a while back in the Black Garden. We tried to suppress the Black Heart. It ended up corrupting the Guardians who came into contact with it. From there out, Dark Guardians spawned… and Darkness slowly spread." 

"I'm here now. That's all that matters." 

"Who's the other Exo?" Zavala asks.

Rasputin announces himself. 

"You have the Warmind? Incredible. Still… why would you need my help? He's infinitely more capable than me."

"Rasputin is a weapon, but we need to know where to point him," Ana replies.

"Which is why we could use whatever information you have to find Savathûn. We thought that if we could ally with Darkness and Light, we might stand a chance. Find symmetry where staunchness failed," I propose.

"That old song," he muses. "Even if I could help, the Warmind won't be enough. Not for what lies beyond Savathûn. She is only a pawn."

"Meaning what?"

"You want the real Witch—you want Eris Morn."

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 5: Almighty, Once

We follow Zavala back to his home: inside the wreckage of the Almighty that had crashed long ago.

"Do you remember this, Warmind? Our great success," Zavala says and gives us a half smile weighted down by years of reclusiveness. "And our final victory." 

Rasputin finds his way over to a console and plugs in. "There are files in there I've been trying to decrypt for years. Maybe you'll have better luck," Zavala says. He lights a fire and prepares a kettle. 

"I can't imagine Eris…," Ana says, her voice trailing off in shock.

"Eris wasn't special. She was corrupted as easily as the rest. She came to me after finding an artifact inside a Pyramid on the Moon and deceived us all. The Bombardment was her masterstroke, proving that the Darkness destroys all it touches."

My sister shoots me a knowing and somewhat hopeful glance.

"What happened that day? It's been impossible to find accurate recounts," Ana says.

"We were outnumbered. When the Witch Queen found me, she called me 'the nonbeliever' as she tore my leg from its joint and pulled the Light from my Ghost, discarding me like trash. Ikora had it worse."

I look to Ana, who is hanging on every word, fighting back tears. The urge to console her rushes up from the pit in my stomach, but I repress the sensation. I wasn't meant for that. 

"I looked up to the Traveler, hoping it would be our salvation from this atrocity. But instead, it just… left. Abandoned us when we needed it most. I wanted to reach out and grab it. Make it stay. Make it save us, as we always thought it would. But that was it. Gone. Cabal forces crumbled the rest." 

Rasputin interrupts. "What's that, Red?" Ana asks.

"Did he say what I think he said?" I ask, perking up.

"He says Ghaul's plans to ensnare the Traveler and harvest its Light, the blueprints, they're all here. He's copying them now." 

My mind races. Zavala has been sitting on a gold mine.

"Looks like you might get your chance to capture the Traveler after all," I propose with vigor. "We bring it back here. Make it fight and restore the Light."

"You'd need to find it first," Ana says. There's a hesitation in her voice. As if she actually doesn't like this plan.

Rasputin chimes in again in Russian. "What's he saying?" Zavala asks.

"He can track it. The Traveler," I say. "Clovis installed the capability as a failsafe in case it ever tried to run off."

"Even with Red tracking it, we'd need an army to build Ghaul's device," Ana says pessimistically.

"Ana, this is as good a shot as we're going to get. Did you drag me all this way to give up now?" I ask.

"No… no, you're right. We can figure this out."

Zavala smiles faintly while watching us. 

"What do you say, Commander? One last ride for Ikora?" Ana knows just what to say.

"I suppose," Zavala says, "If this is the end of the world, we may as well go down swinging." 

Ana's eyes light up. "We'll still need that army."

"I know of someone in command of an army who has a bone to pick with Eris," Zavala says. "We need to find Mara Sov."

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 6: A Matter of Trust

We've been traveling for a few days now, tracking Mara Sov based on her last correspondence with Zavala. The signal was further out than we'd anticipated.

"Got a minute?" Ana asks, knocking on the entrance to my quarters.

"Sure."  

"I just want to say thank you. Coming with me, helping me convince Zavala." 

I admit, it's been inspiring seeing Zavala renewed with purpose, even though he's chosen to keep the ratty beard.

"I couldn't have come this far without you," she finishes. 

It has been nice being with her, despite the circumstances. It's odd having a sister again after all this time.

"Just doing my part," I reply.

Ana stares off. I can tell she wants something. So I wait.

"I need one more thing from you," she says.

There it is.

"I need you to show me how you use Stasis. Elsie, you're proof that it's not inherently evil. It can be controlled. You show me how, and people will see it's possible."

I was hoping we'd moved past this.

"I'm not a figurehead for some movement, Ana. Stasis isn't something you simply control. There's constant temptation. I struggle still, to this day. Using it takes time. Discipline. And even I still haven't mastered it. Not sure I ever will," I say.

"We will. And when we do, all the deniers will vanish. We'll get our world back. We deserve to get it back."

"We deserve what we got."

"Speak for yourself. Countless people died while you sat on the sidelines and watched everything fall apart."

"If you only knew, Ana. The Darkness…"

"Always an excuse. You want to do your part? Then step up and actually help me with this."

"I'm trying to. What is this really about, Ana?"

"You just don't get it."

She storms out, leaving a fuming wake behind. I catch a glimpse of Zavala in the corridor. He was listening.

"You're using Stasis?" Zavala asks condescendingly.

"I get to hear it from you now, too?"

"Okay, okay. When there was a Vanguard, I thought I had all the answers. Perhaps that was our undoing. I know now that commanding has as much to do with giving orders as it does listening to others' needs. Don't be like I was—angry and trying to control everything. Listen to your sister. Consider why she's asking this of you."

"I have."

"We're here! Approaching now!" Ana calls out, her voice echoing down the corridor.

"Hoped I'd never see this thing again as long as I lived," Zavala says as we come face-to-face with the Leviathan.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 7: Commandeered

"Commander Zavala, it is good to see you. Or what remains of you," Queen Mara Sov says with a cutting elegance as we exit our ship and board the Leviathan. "I believed you dead."

"Part of me was. I am glad to have found you," he says.

"We are in need of all the allies we can find. And you bring the Bray sisters, I see."

I bow. "It's good to see you again, my Queen." I learned in my time with her, before everything collapsed, that the Queen is particular about her customs.

Mara smiles back at me. "And you, my friend."

"Where is Calus?" Zavala asks.

"We are unsure of his whereabouts. A problem for another day."

She's surrounded by Cabal and Fallen working alongside what's left of the Awoken army. I had heard some defected to Eris after Mara's failed assaults. Everyone has lost so much to the Dark armies. 

"I'm surprised you don't have Vex here as well," Ana says discourteously.

"An attempt at humor, my Queen," I say, nudging Ana in the hopes of conveying to her that the Queen expects respect. 

"The Vex are trapped in time by our betrayer and her Dark army," Mara says.

"We have something that we believe can turn the tide," Zavala says, gesturing toward Rasputin. "The Warmind can locate the Traveler using Clovis Bray's tracking algorithm. We know how to capture the Traveler once we find it, but we'll need your army to build the harness." 

"I have slowly been gathering forces in preparation of striking back at Eris and the Witch Queen. I would invite you to join our ranks and swear allegiance, but I can smell the aroma of Darkness around you," Mara says, her gaze resting on me.

"My Queen," I say, lowering my head, "I am wielding Stasis, but we want the same end: to survive this." 

She's unconvinced. 

"Elisabeth, you once asked me to pick a side, even if it was the wrong one. Tell me, did you choose correctly?" she asks.

"I should hope so, since I am at your side once more."

Mara and Zavala exchange a loaded glance and he nods, offering his approval.

"Do not mistake my hospitality for trust. You will earn it on the battlefield."

I bow again. Ana does not.


Later, as I approach the Queen's quarters, I overhear Zavala. "…have to be aware, I do not fully trust her. I think she has a thirst for Darkness." 

"We will do our best to keep a close eye on that one," Mara responds.

How could they still not trust me?

"If things go south, I'll do it myself. Ana is my friend, after all," he replies.

Oh. 

"What are they saying?" Ana whispers, startling me.

"Nothing. Let's go," I say quietly.

"Is there a spy in our midst?" Mara calls out. Not quiet enough, I guess.

"No, ma'am. We were just coming in to talk strategy," Ana says as we enter the room. Quick thinking! "The Leviathan presents some interesting possibilities."

"My forces are constructing the harness as we speak. No matter what advantages you believe we have, we are still underprepared for the threat we face. Eris Morn is powerful in ways even I do not comprehend. She is using the Darkness to its full potential."

"What if we're able to do the same… but with the Light?" I propose.



Through the unending expanse of space, we see a soft light, a beacon. The Traveler.

"There you are," Zavala says to himself as Mara and her makeshift army ready themselves.

As we approach, I am awestruck. I forgot how massive it is. We have one shot at this.

"Red says he's able to access some of the ship's higher functions and weaponry. Dormant satellite arrays as well. Could prove useful," Ana says.

"Some good news, finally," Zavala exhales. "Elisabeth…"

Suddenly, Zavala collapses to the floor, grabbing his head and screaming loud enough to echo through the Leviathan.

"What happened?" Mara demands.

"I don't know! He just fell," Ana responds.

His eyes open wide. He calms. Then he speaks.

"We need you. Return to us."  

Is he? He's speaking… to the Traveler?

"You chose us before. Please, give us another chance."

He closes his eyes and rubs his head.

"It intends to run," Zavala says, standing and regaining his composure.

"What are we gonna do?" Ana asks.

Zavala releases a deep, focused breath. "Take it back. By force."

"Launch the harness!" Mara Sov commands as her crew gets to work.

It fires as the Traveler becomes aware, burning with a rich, luminous glow. Too bright to keep staring. I shield my eyes hoping we built this right. 

The Leviathan shakes, and I grab onto the wall to keep from falling. 

The light fades, and my eyes adjust. Sure enough, the harness has latched onto the sphere like a barnacle, the six arms gripped tight. The Leviathan erupts in applause. I look for Ana, but I can't find her in the mass of bodies.

"We're coming home, Ikora," Zavala says pridefully.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 8: Migration

"I heard you the other day," I say, barging into Zavala's quarters. He's mid-shave. "Ana. You said you'd kill her."

He wipes his blade clean and washes his face.

"If I have to, yes," he says.

"What makes you think you'll have to?"

"I have known Ana a long time. Something isn't right."

"Weren't you just advocating that I listen to her?"

"I wanted to see if something was off with you as well."

"You're a bastard," I seethe. 

"I'm making sure we're successful."

"You wouldn't even be here if it weren't for her. You'd be rotting away on that wreckage."

"Are you done?"

"She's my sister. My responsibility. You don't get to make that call."

I know whose shoulders bear this burden, and in this moment, he does too.

"Then if it comes to it, let's hope you have the strength to see it through. For all our sakes," he says.


The Leviathan is quiet. Not the atmosphere of a rallied army charging headfirst on to victory. This feels like a death march. It's not my place to rouse the crowd, so I stand next to Ana and watch as we approach the Moon, the Traveler locked in tow within the harness.

"Everyone knows their part. I would like to say that I will see you all again on the other side, but we know that isn't true. That's not why we are here. We are here to stop Eris Morn, at all costs," Zavala says. 

He and Mara exchange a glance and a nod. He walks past us without another word, past the Cabal and Fallen. Guess he doesn't like goodbyes, either.

"We have arrived. Ready yourselves," the Queen orders. "Make no mistake: Eris will die this day."
 
We rush into the drop ships, leaving Rasputin to pilot the Leviathan. I join Ana and Mara on our journey to the surface. 

"Ana… for all those years, I did what I had to do. But I am sorry it was at the expense of us," I say. 

"Save it for after. We're gonna win."

The drop ship hits the ground with a thud, sending tremors through me. The door opens, and we're greeted with a frontal assault of Thrall. We come out firing. It's chaotic, but through the turmoil, I spot the Scarlett Keep. I see Eris Morn, drawing power from beneath the surface, and I see an army of Dark Guardians stampeding toward us.

I look up to the Leviathan and the Traveler, aglow in a phosphorescent haze. He's doing it. Zavala is overcharging himself with Light, siphoning from the Traveler using Ghaul's plans and tech. Good luck, Commander, and thank you.

Ana and Mara fight through the Hive mercilessly as the Dark Guardians approach. I find Ana and signal toward Eris. In lockstep, we carry out our assault. Ana opens fire on a Hunter while I cover her, blasting a flanking Ogre with Stasis. Ana drops a grenade under its massive feet, and a second later, it's dust. Eris spots us, and I swear she's smiling. From behind the Keep, a full brigade of the Awoken armada rises, perverted with Hive thorns and insignia. 

Now's the time, Warmind. 

As the Awoken defectors fire onto the battlefield, they're blasted out of the sky by satellite arrays in a dazzling display. I can feel Eris's frustration at this. Then I see her, shrouded in Darkness, performing a summoning ritual. 

A singular beam of blinding Light tears through the black sky with the velocity of a shooting star, headed straight for the Scarlett Keep. 

Give 'em hell, Commander. 

He collides with the structure so precisely that he only creates a small fissure. After a moment, an explosion, bright and disastrous, completely levels the Keep to rubble. We hear a deafening scream throughout the field that could only be Savathûn. Mara races to us. "The Witch is weakened. We strike now!" 

Eris is regaining her footing as we close in. "All of my detractors in one place. Thank you for bringing them to me, Ana," she says and smiles. 

I turn to Ana, confused. She pulls out a knife and readies it toward Mara. I make a move to stop her, but I can't. I'm frozen in place… by Ana. She stabs Mara Sov in front of us. "You're welcome, my Queen." Stasis and blood drip from her hands. 

"We are all Dark, eventually," Eris says with glee.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 9: The Return

"What have you done?!" I scream as Mara Sov's body drops lifelessly to the ground.

"Elsie, listen to me. This was necessary. The Darkness cannot thrive while believers of the Light remain. There's a world beyond this conflict. Let's go there together," Ana pleads.

"This is not the way!" I cry and ready my Stasis.

"Elsie, please don't do this. You can still join us. Don't you want to be a family again?"

Not like this. Not through death and betrayal. Zavala was right about her… I remember the promise I made. 

"I forgive you for all the years you kept me in the dark. I know you were trying to protect me. Forget the past. We can start over. Let me protect you now," she says with such sincerity that I know she's too far gone to reason with.

The look on Ana's face tells me she knows where I've landed. She's genuinely hurt, gritting her teeth to stop herself from crying. I try to raise my hand to blast her, but she's already on the move.

Ana attacks and stabs me in my side, disconnecting core components. My left arm goes limp. I look up to see Eris summoning a portal. The Vex come flooding through. Our army of Cabal and Fallen are being eviscerated. Vex Hydras swarm the Leviathan and open fire. If I could cry, I would. We lost. Again.

Suddenly, Eris stands above me with a twisted grin. "Do you see what the path of the self-righteous yields? You call it protection, but all Ana felt was abandonment. You left a void. Darkness filled it."

"You have bigger problems," I say, looking to the sky.

A piercing noise emanates from the Traveler. Its brilliance begins to swell. Worried and confused, Eris commands all her forces to focus on killing it with Dark energy.

"It didn't have to be this way," Ana cries as she drives the knife into me once more. "You could have been with me!"

I finally shatter my own binding, blasting her with Stasis. She flies back, locked in the air. I see her struggling. "Ana, she's corrupted you!" 

"No… She gave me purpose!" 

Damn it all. I know what I have to do. 

I kiss her forehead as I turn her blade and thrust it into her. Her eyes go wide, and some semblance of my sister returns before she fades. 

"Elsie…" she trails off into the void. My own sister… Eris will pay for this. 

The Darkness energy Eris manipulates canvases the landscape and makes its way to the sky. I see the Traveler, getting brighter as the Darkness encapsulates it. I race toward Eris, but I'm too late. 

In an enchanting explosion, the Traveler's Light enshrouds all in totality. 

Then darkness. n
I'm awake. 

I see a tower. THE Tower.

I'm in the Last City. It's… thriving. Bustling with life. Children laughing.

There's a small parade. I fight through the crowd to find Cayde-6 at the center of it. "I think I finally got him this time!" he shouts as a beardless Zavala greets him. 

"Taniks has been dead before," Zavala says. 

From behind him emerges Ikora Rey, like a vision. "Let the new Hunter Vanguard bask. He's earned it."

I'm so sick of this scene. Of hearing these words ever since the day I killed my sister. That was the first time. Now I've lost count. 

No matter what I do, it always ends the same. Blood and betrayal. Then I'm back where I started. Right here.

I'm being taunted, punished. Forced to relive this loop.

There has to be a way out. I will find it. 

I have to save my sister.

<|endoftext|>

Empress

The ascent of Caiatl from Princess-Imperial to Empress of the Cabal.

<|endoftext|>

CHAPTER 1: STORYTELLER

Gold silks and purple velvets hung above the gilded chair where Ahztja settled in to tell the princess Caiatl her nightly story.

Ahztja was the emperor's mythkeeper; a talented storyteller and Psion who held all the legends and histories of the conquered worlds in her mind. Caiatl's father often said, "Ahztja is an athenaeum world in and of herself." He often retreated, either into his pleasures or his unpredictable melancholy, leaving Ahztja to fill Caiatl's mind with fantasy. 

Holding a toy model of a warship in her hands, Caiatl sat on the floor before Ahztja. "Ahztja," she said politely, knowing she would not receive her story otherwise, "Please tell me how the faraway peoples say the universe came to be."

Ahztja considered, searching through the library of her mind, and then nodded.

"Imagine the universe as swirling chaos," Ahztja said softly.

Caiatl closed her eyes and saw it.

"Among the chaos stands Irkyn La, the First Host, who blinks herself into existence with the First Thought: chaos must come to order."

Caiatl saw a creature, tremendous beyond belief, in her mind's eye.

"And so to satisfy the First Thought, which would become the First Law, Irkyn La consumes the chaos of the void and gives birth to the ordered universe."

Caiatl opened her eyes, and they were bright with intrigue. 

"That is how the Tiiarn would say the universe began," Ahztja said. 

Caiatl looked at the toy in her hands, and then back at Ahztja. "Where does this giant woman live?" 

"The Tiiarn would say she is the very fabric of the universe. When you look to the sky, when you look out into space, you are looking into Irkyn La's mouth." 

Caiatl turned her toy for a little while. Then, looking up, she said fiercely, "I will challenge Irkyn La to a battle and defeat her. Then my people will own everything in the universe." 

Ahztja chuckled fondly. "Yes, I think you would," she said. "But the empire has already defeated the Tiiarn. None of them are left. And with no one to believe in her, Irkyn La is dead as well." 

"Then I will believe in her." 

Ahztja's lips pulled back in a curious smile. "You'll believe in her so that you can challenge her?" 

"Yes." 

Laughing again, Ahztja placed her hand on Caiatl's head. "Ah, brave Caiatl. A warrior so mighty, she wills her enemies into existence." 

Caiatl's chest swelled with incandescent pride.

<|endoftext|>

CHAPTER 2: STAR PILOT

In a war chamber built by her father's Psion mind-sculptors, Caiatl piloted a fighter through a strange world. It twisted and turned on itself to create strange, rotting landforms all around her. She passed mountains that sprouted weeping tumors and saw fields crusted over with scabrous tissue. 

The exhilaration of flight made her eyes sharp; the familiarity of the controls kept her hands steady. She was so much better here than in any of her father's tedious lessons. Awake. Alive. 

Umun'arath's voice rumbled in her ear like a surfacing landwhale. 

"Imagine all of Torobatl as the putrid grave swamps of Aark," she said. "Centuries sunk in muck. A testament to someone else's conquest." 

Caiatl narrowed her eyes at her ship's heads-up display as a corrupted flame suddenly burned a hole in the sky itself, straight ahead…

"There are monsters at the edges of our territory that would tear our world open and turn it inside out," Umun growled. "They fear nothing." 

Caiatl felt a jolt: the telltale rock, tilt, and drag of damage at the tail of the ship. She tried to pull up. Through the hole in the sky emerged a hag: enormous, robed, screaming. Emerald fire burst from her claws and spiraled toward Caiatl's ship, but she was too dazzled by the fireworks to avoid it. 

Seconds before the flames engulfed her ship, Caiatl heard: "What do you fear, Princess?" 

In these war chambers, simulated death felt like real death. Panic, pain, darkness. Realistic consequences for failure. The chamber left its inhabitants floating in a void after defeat—and in that emptiness, minutes could feel like hours. 

When the darkness finally evaporated, Caiatl stood in the blank chamber. Alone. 

Umun emerged and crossed the room. "You're dead," she told her. 

Caiatl kept her back straight and voice level, though there was a tremor in her arm—a humiliating aftereffect. "Yes." 

"You were distracted," Umun said. "I saw you: looking around, like you were on a sightseeing flight." She made a dismissive gesture with her left hand. "Weaned and coddled on too many stories."

"I won't fail again," Caiatl said. 

"Wrong," said Umun'arath. "You will die many more times if you wish to live." She clapped a hand on Caiatl's shoulder. "Do it again."

<|endoftext|>

CHAPTER 3: ASSASSIN

Caiatl felt the assassin's eyes on her back before she heard their words. 

"Your father sends his regards," they croaked. 

She calmly turned. The intruder was not Cabal. They wore a strange, sleek armored suit—some off-world species unaccustomed to the atmosphere, no doubt. But her father's influence on it was obvious; he did so favor white, purple, and gold. 

"He can keep them," Caiatl said. The assassin's gun, pointed at her chest, glowed with a purple light that distorted the air around it. 

"He sent a message for you." 

Caiatl lunged, crashing her shoulder into the assassin. They fired their weapon, and Void energy seared through Caiatl's bicep. Undeterred, she slammed the assassin to the ground, clutching their throat in one hand and making a fist with the other. She cocked her arm back. Her reflection in the assassin's helmet stared back at her. Furious. Unblinking. Curious. 

"Go on then," she snarled, her fist looming. "The message." 

The assassin struggled. "You are a child in a general's costume," they spat. "None of the vision of your father. None of the drive or strength of the one they call Dominus." Something sharp penetrated Caiatl's pressure suit and slipped up against her ribs. "You will not be remembered." 

Spurred to action, Caiatl rolled to unseat the blade; the assassin followed and raised the Void weapon to her head. 

Caiatl slammed her hand over the barrel. Energy shot through her palm as she ripped the gun away. She grabbed the assassin's helmet with her bloody fingers and slammed their head against the ground. Once, twice, three times. 

The shield began to crack. 

Four, five, six times. 

She let the helmet thud against the ground. Her contorted reflection now stared back. 

"Is he listening?" Caiatl boomed. "My father? Tell him I will come for him. Tell him there's no distance that will save him from me." 

The assassin gasped and wheezed. When they recovered their voice, they hissed, "Killing me will not stop the end… from coming. My gods have foretold…" 

Caiatl hesitated for a brief moment before her good hand clenched into a fist and slammed into the assassin's visor, shattering her reflection as well as the assassin's skull. 

She sat back in the wreckage, panting, covered in strange, viscous blood. 

"Your gods are dead," she said to no one.

<|endoftext|>

CHAPTER 4: SOLDIERS

Caiatl loathed the crawling pace of the court. She despised the tricky voices of courtiers and generals vying for attention and resources. Sorting out their tedious requests was like fetching lost scraping sticks from the bottom of a mud-wallow.

But one day, a general came to her with a clear complaint. "The stench from Umun'arath's rooms permeates the entire east wing of the palace. My lovers choke on toxic fumes simply walking through the halls." 

Surprised she hadn't heard about it before, Caiatl dismissed him with a promise to investigate the Evocate-General's chambers. 

Later that day, she found that the first of Umun's rooms, usually kept tidy with military precision, was changed. Her two war tables were covered in papers and tomes unrecognizable to Caiatl. The room stank of death and poison. Strange symbols were drawn on the ground in ash. 

In the far corner of the room, with the restraints they used for captives aboard their prison ships, a living Hive Thrall was held in suspension, drooling and chattering. 

"Umun," Caiatl said, astonished. "What's happening here?" 

Umun turned from one of her war tables where she studied a book that looked to be bound with mottled flesh. "Princess," she said, pleased. "Good. I thought to call you, but I've been so engrossed. Come see the future of the Cabal army." 

Caiatl approached, intent on looking at Umun instead of the Thrall. 

"They don't fear pain," Umun said. Perverse admiration crept into her voice. "They don't fear death." 

"Soldiers who don't know pain or fear are useless," Caiatl said, eyeing the Evocate-General. "'It is the knowledge of death and the will to defy it that together breed bravery.' You taught me those texts." 

"We must move beyond them," Umun muttered, watching the Thrall tilt its grotesque face in response to their voices. "With each swing of the sword, the universe grows smaller, Caiatl. The competition fiercer. If we don't learn a new way, we'll be cut down with the rest." Her voice went quiet. "We must accept new gods, or we'll perish." 

The Thrall began to thrash, sudden and violent. 

Caiatl watched. 

"I am ordering you to step down from the council," she said after a long silence.

<|endoftext|>

CHAPTER 5: NEW GODS

It was Taurun, one of Caiatl's advisors, that alerted her to the spectacle. 

"In the square," she said, her deep voice laced with concern. "I've never seen anything like it." 

Caiatl went immediately. 

In the central square of Torobatl's weaponsmith district, a bright green flame licked the air. Umun'arath stood against the blaze, naked but for a waist wrap, in the custody of two guards. Her hide was carved with strange, crude symbols. When she saw Caiatl arrive, she threw her head back and laughed. 

"Here comes the Princess-Imperial," she said. "To kneel before our new god."[I am Savathûn, whispering.]

Caiatl strode forward. "Let her go," she told the guards. Reluctant, they did as she asked. "What god, Umun? What heresies have you invented now?" 

Umun grinned. "The god of war," she said, and the earth trembled beneath them. 

[But the god of war has planted her armies elsewhere; it is her sister, smiling, that has taken the ear of the warchild Umun'arath.] 

Caiatl stood before Umun in the flickering green light of the fire. "Your obsession is a weakness," she said. "And a threat to our prosperity." 

"You can't stop it now," Umun lilted, breathless with delight. 

[Xivu Arath, hear me.] 

Caiatl didn't break her stare. "I have no choice but to—"

Umun, chuckling, raised her hands. They glowed. The fire behind her burned higher and chattered like rattling bones. "The war is all there is," she said. 

As the chattering reached a fevered pitch, Caiatl made a decision. With the lightning-quick reflexes Umun had taught her, she unsheathed the ceremonial sword at her side and ran it through Umun's middle. 

Umun laughed. 

[You are war, and I conjure you with war and blood.] 

She laughed and laughed and laughed until her mouth began to ooze. Until Caiatl, disgusted, pushed her off the sword with her foot. The body tumbled back onto the green blaze. 

[A gift for my favorite sister.] 

As the fire consumed the corpse, a gargantuan portal opened in the sky.

<|endoftext|>

CHAPTER 6: BATTLE SONG

Smoke rose from the city of Torobatl. The sky was dark with Tombships and Threshers. Strange, spindly towers had sprouted from the ground, infecting the streets and alleyways Caiatl had known so well, rendering the landscape alien. 

Many of the creatures that poured from the tear in the sky had fallen to her missiles—like any other enemy—but their numbers never seemed to dwindle. Their will never seemed to falter. 

Pinned in the wreckage of a crashed single-pilot fighter, Caiatl caught her breath as gel leaked from her suit. She remembered Umun's words: They don't fear pain. They don't fear death. 

She wondered how she could have let this happen. How could she have been the one to open that door? 

Because even as she cursed Umun for starting this, Caiatl was the one who had finished it. It didn't matter that she'd done it unwillingly and unknowingly. That responsibility was still on her shoulders. 

She cursed Umun and the vermin Hive, but more than that, she cursed herself. 

She was responsible for the destruction of their home. 

A voice as loud as thunder spoke to her, deafening: 

MY HOME IS WAR. 

MY VOICE IS A BATTLE SONG. 

FOR AS LONG AS YOU HAVE WORSHIPPED WAR, YOU HAVE WORSHIPPED ME. 

I AM HERE TO CLAIM MY TRIBUTE. 

IT IS OVERDUE.

<|endoftext|>

CHAPTER 7: CORONATION

At the long table of her council room on the fleeing warship Eligos Lex V, Caiatl sat with her advisors. An ugly panic gripped them. 

"Their war moons are too powerful," said Councilor Taurun. The tactical display, where Hive ships and war moons floated like innumerable dust specks in space, flickered. 

"They are not deterred by casualties," rumbled Ca'aurg. "All loss is acceptable loss to the Hive." 

There were murmurs of assent across the table. "Ghaul diverted some of our best generals," lamented Tha'arec. "All to the damnable Sol system, for his idiotic crusade…"

"They will not return," said Ca'aurg. "And neither will Ghaul." He clenched his fist. "But this weakness didn't start with Ghaul. It started with that bloated traitor, Calus." 

Ca'aurg and Tha'arec glared at each other from across the table. They shared a look Caiatl knew very well; it often preceded bloodshed. She watched them for a tense moment and then raised her voice to say, "Enough." 

All looked to the Princess-Imperial. 

"My father was infatuated with the myth of his own benevolence," Caiatl said. "He gorged himself and his people on stories of what the empire could be and took half-measures to make it so. But he never succeeded. He never wished to succeed. I am not my father. 

"Dominus Ghaul was obsessed with his own redemption. He imagined debts owed to him and sought their fulfilment. He used the Legion as a tool to secure himself and his legacy. He saw the empire as one more thing he was owed. I am not Dominus Ghaul. 

"Umun'arath misled me—misled us all. Our people are not meant to flee our battles. But neither are we the Hive, throwing ourselves on the blade again and again. There is strength in tactical retreat." 

She studied the worried faces of her councilors and felt shame for their weakness, but responsibility as well. "We'll direct all our surviving ships to the Sol system to reclaim whatever remains of the Legion. This is my first order, as empress of the Cabal." 

The next day, as they fled their homeworld, a coronation was held upon the Eligos Lex V, royal flagship of Empress Caiatl, leader of the Cabal.

<|endoftext|>

CHAPTER 8: EMPRESS

//A MESSAGE FROM EMPRESS CAIATL OF THE CABAL, TO ALL HER FLEET//

I speak to you as crowned empress of the Cabal Empire, your new leader. 

As I speak, we flee our home. Some of you lament our loss. Some of you whisper about the weakness of retreat. I assure you, we do not flee out of weakness. We march toward strength. 

We have found ourselves in a battle with war itself. And I have come to see that the face of war is ugly and poisonous. 

We are not the same as our enemies. We fight for a reason. For a purpose. 

Not for pointless luxury, nor the approval of false gods. Unlike our predecessors, we fight to pay homage to our past and make strides towards our future. A future where all glory is not for vanity but for our people. We fight for the empire. 

We now chart toward the Sol system, to recover the soldiers stranded there by Ghaul's hubris. We will rebuild our army and return to reclaim our home. 

Our future will not look the same as our past. With your trust, I will usher us into a new age, and I will not default on my promises, as my father did before me. 

From this moment forward, all Psions of the Cabal Empire are released from the bonds of servitude and granted full citizenship. You are free to remain or leave as you please. You will be granted reasonable supplies for your departure, if you choose to go. 

If you stay, I must warn you: the battle ahead will be long and arduous. Many of us will fight, bleed, and die to preserve our collective freedoms. But together, we will build an army where warriors fight not for themselves, or for their grasping leaders, but for each other. 

There will be no mercy for false gods. The Cabal Empire will rise from this challenge victorious. United. We will draw from our past to give strength to our future. 

As one Cabal. 

//END MESSAGE//

<|endoftext|>

CHAPTER 9: TRUCE

Caiatl was sitting alone in her private quarters. She glanced up, awoken from her reverie when Taurun arrived. 

"Empress," Taurun said, bowing. She was a stickler for formality. "The other councilors are awaiting a decision regarding our arrival in Sol." 

Caiatl gave her a wry look. As if she didn't know. 

Taurun waited. When Caiatl didn't answer, she pressed further. "Have you made a decision?" 

Caiatl sighed and shifted in her seat. "Not yet," she said. "There is much still to consider. Sit down." 

Taurun hesitated, caught between her dedication to formality and a direct order from her empress. She gingerly lowered herself into a chair. 

"The Guardians killed Ghaul," Caiatl said. 

"Yes," said Taurun. 

"Stories say they've killed greater enemies too." 

"Other deities of the Hive. One of the great worms." 

"And a sibling of Xivu Arath," Caiatl added. 

"Perhaps then, the costs of this venture do not outweigh the benefits," Taurun mused. 

"We need every resource at our disposal," Caiatl said. 

Taurun was quiet. 

Caiatl leaned forward abruptly in her seat. "Do we need to make war to regain the Legion?" 

Once more, Taurun was silent. Eventually, she said carefully, "You don't believe we would win?" 

Caiatl saw the blade hidden in Taurun's question. "We would win," she said. "After a long, grueling war. We'd sustain huge losses. And we'd leave ourselves open to further devastation at the war god's hands." 

Taurun's gaze turned thoughtful. "Yes, probably." She studied Caiatl's face. "So what do you suggest?" 

"We… negotiate," Caiatl said quietly. "With the Guardians." 

Taurun observed her customary moment of silence. "Some of the councilors won't like it." 

"I know," Caiatl said. She stared past Taurun, her jaw set. "I don't either." 

"You'll have to make a gesture for them. A nod to our legacy as conquerors. If they see it as a true, equal negotiation…" Taurun trailed off. 

"They'll call it weakness," Caiatl finished. 

Taurun nodded. "Especially after fleeing Torobatl." 

They shared another silence. The ache of mounting stress began to push at Caiatl's temples. 

Her voice was weary when she spoke again. "Then we will demand that the Guardians kneel."

<|endoftext|>

From the Front

Tales regarding Caiatl's invasion of the Sol system.

<|endoftext|>

I. The Hopeful Legion

Val Ma'rag  had been "stationed' in the place the Humans called a dead zone  for years now, though he had no commander, no handler . He held the territory on his own, defending it from the stinking, vermin Hive. They reminded him of the tiny red beetles that crawled around in the dust where he'd come up; the ones that swarmed war beast pens and crept into woven clothes. The best way to get rid of them, his mother taught him, was to hold a flame close to the seams of their shells. They snapped and popped in the heat.

He found the same to be true for the Hive. 

By now, he'd stopped expecting anyone to come for him. Their invasion had become a death sentence; one he had accepted by the nature of his position. He would die for the Legion, with or without the promise of reward. 

As Val Ma'rag listened to a transmission from the Empress Caiatl, he thought about how far he'd come since he was recruited. Since he was pulled out of the poorest rural district on his planet. With this new challenge—with the new empress sending her call out into the system—he could go a lot farther. 

///

Europa was cold. Basilius  was no stranger to cold—he'd been stationed on Mars before it disappeared, before his Valus  sent him and his reports off-planet on a recon mission. He didn't care for intel  or resource gathering, but a Valus is law. Or at least, he was. 

After a false start  on Nessus, they'd brought the cruiser to Europa. The icy moon was crawling with thieving Fallen, but there were secrets buried in the ice. Dainty Human technology. It didn't interest him, but the Psions loved to tinker, and they insisted there was something here worthwhile. 

Something that could catch the attention of an empress hoping to regain favor with her scattered people. Something that might win a soldier like him, with no valuable titles or reputation to his name, a new level of recognition. 

And the respect he deserved. 

///

As the voice of their so-called empress droned on from a beat-up radio, the soldiers ate. Commander Dracus picked at the bones of a roasted bird, gun laid across his lap. The little red-violet winged creatures on Nessus didn't have much meat on them, but they were challenging and satisfying to trap. 

"What's she mean, 'ancient rites'?" a young Legionary asked. 

The commander looked up. 

"Old-timer traditions?" she went on. 

Dracus snorted. "An honored tradition," he said. "Beloved by the Praetorate . Warriors take on challengers to prove their battle-worth." He eyed her. "Calves like you wouldn't remember that." 

"Is it open to anyone?" the Legionary asked. 

He laughed. 

"Well," she growled. "Are you taking challengers?" She squared her weight. "You can start with me." 

Dracus looked the bold youngling up and down, calculating the effort. He had no great desire to impress the disgraced emperor's pampered daughter. The leader he knew and served was the dominus , dead or alive. But maybe there was money to be gained from this. He wouldn't turn his nose up at the prospect. 

He tossed the bird bones aside, lifted his gun, and fired a shot right into the Legionary's belly. She fell. 

"I win," he said. 

///

They called her Ixel, the Far-Reaching because she'd risen far above her station in a fraction of her lifetime. 

They called her Ixel, the Far-Reaching because she pulled things from her mind that should be out of reach from memory. 

They called her Ixel, the Far-Reaching because she grasped for everything she could not have. 

It was all true. On the strange terrain of the Nessus centaur, Ixel had extracted herself from command. The Valus had been uncreative, small minded. He hadn't seen the value in the Vex technologies that might amplify Ixel's unique Psionic talents. So she killed him and poached the unit's best fighters. 

Hard to say if this competition was open to traitors of the empire. 

And yet somehow, this new empress, foolish though she was, might be inspired by bold action. 

Not to mention the things Ixel could pull from the prediction engines. Intelligence beyond the empress's imagining. 

They called her Ixel, the Far-Reaching because her ambition was limitless.

<|endoftext|>

II. The Cost of War

When Xivu Arath  came for Torobatl , Caiatl was unprepared. 

They all were. She'd watched her people, bred for battle and victory, fall to a force that dwarfed their armies. She'd watched her beloved city burn. 

Caiatl learned from every failure. From this one, she learned two things: First, that warriors were not game pieces, no matter how much her generals enjoyed bickering over war tables. And second, that a society of warriors could not hope to beat a god of war at her own game, and by her own rules. 

There were shades of victory. Escaping their homeworld with so many survivors was a victory. Regaining their army was a victory. Avoiding an all-out war with the Guardians would be another. 

Except the Guardians would not negotiate. 

She hadn't expected it. She'd thought that after Ghaul's attack, they would do anything to avoid another war. Catastrophe seemed to befall this system time and time again, if the Red Legion scribes  stranded here were to be believed. So why did the Guardians refuse a way out? 

She knew why, of course. It was why she'd waited so long before giving the evacuation order in Torobatl. Why she'd been mesmerized by the towering form of Xivu Arath crushing thousands of years of civilization beneath her chitin boots. 

Denial. Pride. 

But Caiatl had grown since then. She'd counted her losses. Calculated constantly. Always working the numbers, never losing sight of who they represented. 

The Guardians would have to grow as well, if they wished to survive. For there were gods walking through this world, and the battle against them would not be won through denial and pride. 

They would have to cut a new path.

<|endoftext|>

III. Amanda Dreams

A spot of rust on the Shotgun. A hole in the ground—down to hard clay. A pool of rust on her mother's weather-beaten jacket. Hacked-apart roots grope toward her, peacefully sleeping. 

A gnarled hand on her shoulder. A gnawing pit in her stomach. Was it hunger or grief? Her father's cough, cough, cough in the background. 

An endless stream of broken vehicles. Rusted skeletons in their cockpits. They sing a low song through toothy grins. A nameless tune—the sound that follows flickering lights. Is one of them Lucia ? 

She holds his swinging hand as they trudge down the road. The rough callouses like spots of rust. The cough, cough, cough of the cart bouncing behind them. The hole in her shoes is growing. He drops her hand to cover his mouth. 

What color were her mother's eyes? She frets at her forgetfulness. The parade of skeletons stretches ahead. Behind, her father puts his hands on his knees. He struggles to breathe. Were they brown? 

Her father's hands on his shoulders, crossed over his chest. Who closed his eyes? Who dug the hole? 

A stray Shotgun shell in her pocket. She runs her thumbnail along the ridges. A totem against forgetfulness. 

Her hands ache with spots of rust as she pulls the cart, alone. 

Amanda Holliday wakes with a shuddering gasp. The Last City hums a nameless tune around her. The Traveler hangs above, as pale as death.

<|endoftext|>

IV. Guardian Angels

"Since we're undercover, you know what I need? A disguise shell . Something… mysterious." Glint hovered eagerly over Crow's shoulder, his shell flaps tilted encouragingly. "We should go see Tess ." 

"First of all," Crow muttered, "we're not undercover. This mission is reconnaissance, not infiltration." 

"Of course," Glint chirped, "but—"

"Second of all," Crow continued, "I'm the one who needs a disguise, not you. Nobody knows who you are." 

"That's not true," Glint protested. "I've been around for hundreds of years! I've met everybody." 

"As 'Pork Bun'  or whatever it was," Crow gently teased. "Nobody in the Tower knows you have a new Guardian." 

Glint whirred in a low tone, which Crow had learned to interpret as grumbling. 

The Awoken Lightbearer ignored his Ghost's petulance and checked the position of the sun. He moved a few feet further into shadow before refocusing his attention on Commander Zavala. The last thing Crow wanted was for the Titan to spot the binoculars' reflection. 

It had been like this for the past week. During the days, Crow would cover Zavala from afar with his Sniper Rifle, vigilant for any unusual transmat signatures  or the faint shimmer of cloaking tech . At night, when visibility was restricted, the pair would creep into the Tower and act as the commander's invisible bodyguards. 

Crow burrowed further into his new Hunter cloak. It really was a beautiful garment, he thought. He admired the fine fabric, chosen by Glint and gifted to him by Osiris. Recalling their generosity made him feel suddenly guilty about his stinginess. 

Crow sighed. "Fine. After this mission, once we know Zavala is safe, we can get you a disguise." 

Glint scooted in front of Crow's face, his mechanical iris  suddenly magnified through the binoculars. "Can we really?" 

"I suppose," Crow murmured as he tilted his head to see past the bobbing Ghost. "But not because you need it." 

"Because we're friends," Glint stated matter-of-factly. 

"Sure. Rare  friends. Maybe even cheap, legendary  friends." Crow smiled at his Ghost. "But not exotic  friends. You'll have to find a new Guardian for that." 

"You're the best," Glint hummed encouragingly. "No matter what Lord Saladin says." 

Crow snorted at the mention of the Iron Lord. "We're all on the same side. Sooner or later, Saladin will realize it, and start treating me like a real Guardian." 

"Don't worry," Glint chirped, "with the legendary Pork Bun by your side, how could he refuse?"

<|endoftext|>

V. The Restless Dead

Ikora approached Zavala at his post in the Courtyard. He was looking out at the City the same way he always did, even before he was commander: with a blend of fierce determination, love, and dread. A combination Ikora knew very well herself. 

She stood next to him, resting her hands on the railing, looking up at the Traveler and the stars. 

"They say that before the Collapse, cities were so bright that they outshined the stars," she said quietly. 

It was no surprise to her when he said nothing. Living for hundreds of years didn't endow you with deep understanding of another person, it turned out. Close and steady partnership did. She knew him by now. He held his fears close to his chest, protecting the people he cared about. But with time, with patience, he would let her see. Sometimes. So she waited. 

"I keep seeing his face," Zavala murmured after a long silence. 

Ikora looked at him, her expression falling. When she spoke, her voice was soft with grief. "Cayde?" 

"No," Zavala said. He gripped the railing with both hands, a gesture of frustration and self-doubt. "Uldren Sov." 

Ikora straightened, surprised. That sharp feeling of being caught off guard , of realizing you'd missed something, froze her for a moment. 

"What do you mean?" she asked cautiously. 

"In the Tower," Zavala said. "In crowds…" He hesitated. "I saw him… in the gardens. He called out to me. To warn me about the assassin." 

Silence again. 

Zavala exhaled slowly. "Do you ever listen to the old Golden Age stories Eva tells during the festival? About apparitions of the dead?" 

"'Ghosts,'" Ikora said quickly. "That's what they called them. But those are fairytales." Who needed ghost stories when the dead could already get up and walk? 

She watched Zavala sidelong . Waiting for him to say it. Waiting for him to ask. 

"I don't know why my mind goes to folk stories. I suppose because the alternative is…"

"Too hard," Ikora interrupted softly. "Too hard to imagine." 

Zavala closed his eyes and nodded. 

Neither of them said anything for a few minutes. Eventually, Zavala broke the silence. "But if he were back, we would know," he said. 

Ikora stared straight ahead. She felt him watching her, checking her. He was so tired. So, so tired. 

He would trust whatever she said. 

She reached to put a hand on his shoulder and said, gently, as her gut twisted with guilt, "We would know." 

Zavala placed his hand over hers. 

They stood together, looking out at the Last Safe City of Earth, with a profound distance between them that Ikora had never felt before.

<|endoftext|>

VI. Vertigo

"I never could understand you Psions." Lord Saladin gazed broadly over the precipice of the wall at the rocky wilderness below. Nearby, Osiris watched the Psion prisoner, restrained by a set of centuries-old iron shackles. 

Saladin continued, "You were conquered by the Cabal. And in the face of a superior military force, you did what you had to do to survive. There's no shame in that." 

The Psion flared their moist facial flaps and fixed their lone eye on the Iron Lord . Saladin wondered whether they were glaring in defiance, or struggling to breathe without their helmet. He marveled at their repulsiveness. 

"But even after Calus fled, and Ghaul was defeated, you still grovel before tyrants like Caiatl. If you rose up, you could taste true independence instead of the patronizing scraps that she offers ." Saladin shook his head in contempt. "Your power is wasted by cowardice." 

In the silence that followed, the Iron Lord noticed a curious change in the surrounding atmosphere. The air filled with a sharp frequency—not a sound, but a high-intensity vibration that seemed to emanate from inside his own head, like a blossoming migraine . 

Osiris chuckled. "Our friend disagrees." 

Saladin snarled and grabbed the Psion by their shackled wrists. He dragged his prisoner to the edge of the wall and held them over the precipice. He was amazed at how light they were without armor, like a scrawny little bird. 

Osiris sniffed in distaste and looked back toward the Last City. He doubted Saladin's ham-fisted  style of interrogation would work, but the Psion had resisted his own subtler approach. 

"Where did they get the Light-dampening tech ? How did they modify the prediction engines ?" Saladin snapped. The Iron Lord held firm as the Psion struggled weakly in his grip. "Where are they? Where's the rest of the cell ?" 

The Psion's lone eye  fluttered wildly, and Saladin felt a sudden rush of vertigo, as if he was the one with the hundred-meter drop beneath him. The Titan steeled  himself. 

"We will find them eventually. You can't control that. The only thing you can control now is your own survival. Tell us where they are." 

The Psion began to tremble, like an animal shivering in the cold. But they said nothing. Instead, they assaulted the Iron Lord with another wave of vertigo. 

The wall felt as if it were flexing and tilting beneath the Titan. He growled through clenched teeth. "Last chance: where are they?" 

Suddenly, Osiris was at Saladin's side. The vertigo broke. "Lord Saladin," he urged. "This is a waste of time. You of all people should recognize unrelenting stubbornness when you see it." 

"You're right." Saladin regarded the Psion with quiet admiration. "If the roles were reversed, I'd rather die than betray my loyalty." 

The Iron Lord gave the Psion a nod of respect, and then effortlessly hefted them over the edge. 

In the split second before gravity took hold, Lord Saladin met the Psion's gaze. He suddenly saw himself reflected in the creature's Y-shaped pupil: a ferocious ogre in metal armor, filled with violence. A dull primate, infused with godlike power. A fragile mind cursed with immortality. 

Saladin felt the creature's terror. But he also felt the expanse of the Psion's ancestors yawn forth  beneath him. He felt their hands reach up to embrace him in a comforting void. He heard the ringing chorus of their timeless harmony call to him. A kaleidoscopic  array of emotion surged through his heart, such that he'd never known as a Human. 

For that fleeting moment, he was at peace. 
. 
. 
. 
Then the Psion was gone, and Saladin was alone with Osiris once more.

<|endoftext|>

VII. The Imperial Throne

Caiatl sat on a high-backed throne embellished with ornate carvings and rare metals. It had been salvaged by dutiful courtiers in the last hours of her homeworld . The empress thought it looked preposterous on the bridge of her warship. 

She would have jettisoned the gaudy antique out an airlock if not for Taurun. Her prudent counselor advised that the throne not only conferred authority, but was also now a relic of an endangered species. Any memento of their culture, no matter how trivial, was invaluable. 

Having lost the Red Legion, their dominus , and their homeworld, Caiatl's people needed tradition to galvanize them. They needed the touchstones  of their past to carry them into the terrifying future. They needed to feel like they were still Cabal. 

Caiatl considered the throne in context of the decision before her. The leader of the Vanguard had offered to settle their dispute with a Rite of Proving . It would preempt an exhausting war of attrition with a single, decisive engagement. An exceedingly clever tactic she had not considered. 

The Rite of Proving was once a simple trial-by-combat, used to settle disputes between neighbors. However, like the throne, it had been embellished beyond utility. By the end of Calus's  reign, the Rite had been corrupted to allowed advocates, bureaucrats, and politicians to sway its outcome. 

Despite Caiatl's contempt for the bygone relics of the failed Cabal Empire, Taurun had prevailed upon the empress to honor them. Not for her own sake, the counselor reasoned, but for the sake of the survivors. 

"Taurun. I've made my decision. We'll put forth Ignovun  as our champion… inside the Halphas Electus . We'll see how much Light the smallmen  have left once they fight their way inside." 

"Yes, My Empress." Though the wily counselor's face remained implacable, she continued. "It's my duty to mention that this decision will not be universally welcomed." 

"I would have thought you in favor of honoring tradition." Caiatl flicked her tusk-ring  in annoyance. "It's a decision the majority will embrace." 

"This is true, My Empress." Taurun paused, choosing her next words carefully. "However, some commanders, like Ixel, the Far-Reaching , believe that victory is close at hand. Leaving the outcome to a Rite of Proving will endanger their glory." 

Caiatl snorted derisively. "They would sacrifice us all for a moment of vanity. You know as well as I that we can ill-afford this campaign. We must regroup for an even stronger foe." 

Taurun hazarded  the slightest of raised eyebrows. "With respect, it seems as though you value conclusion over victory." 

Caiatl raised her tusks and lowered her brow. Taurun took a nervous step backward. 

"There's something more important than victory at stake here." The empress ran her hands over the ridiculous throne. "We will honor tradition. We will accept the Rite of Proving. And we will win or lose it as Cabal."

<|endoftext|>

I - ACCEPTANCE

"I'm the most qualified for this!"

Crow's voice reverberated off of the immense window, making the Vanguard Commander's office feel even more cavernous than it was. At night, the edges of Zavala's office were usually dark, but the miasma of Vex energy that swirled in the City below made it more so. Crow sighed and paced in the gloom like a caged animal.

Zavala faced the window and stood, unmoving; a statue carved of larimar, depicting a test of infinite patience. He glanced over at Ikora, her hands gently clasped as she watched Crow with disquieted contemplation. 

"We know," she said, after what felt like an eternity, "but your expertise and relationship with the Eliksni aren't the only deciding factors here."

"Exactly how long am I going to be continually tried in a court of public opinion?" Crow asked pointedly. "And when in this trial will I be given a clear understanding of what I'm on trial for?"

Zavala regarded the Awoken's reflection in the window; it reminded him of the near-fatal walk through the gardens not all that long ago. His shoulders sagged.

"Crow," Zavala said as he turned to face him. "This is a delicate situation. The Consensus has come down hard on us for welcoming the Eliksni into the City, and I can't have them using you as another bludgeon."

"So that's all this is: a political maneuver," Crow pushed. "To protect yourselves. No hard feelings? Nothing behind the looks you give me when you don't think I'm watching?" Zavala stiffened, and Crow sensed the conversational temperature in the room change. 

"This matter aside, if your past identity became public before we have a plan in place, it could cause considerable harm to you and to the people you care about," Ikora said evenly. "People who have come to care about you," she added.

For a long time, no one spoke—and when Crow did, his voice was small. "Then what? I keep hiding from the shadow of the man I was before? Forever?"

"Not forever," Ikora said firmly, "but for now."

Crow shifted his focus to Ikora and saw the hurt in her eyes. He'd seen it in Amanda's, too, whenever she spoke of the dead.

Without another word, he nodded and left.

Ikora closed her eyes, and the breath she'd been holding slowly left her. "He's going to Osiris," she warned.

"And if Osiris is half the leader he's shown himself to be, he'll tell him the same thing," Zavala said with great fatigue, finally sinking into his chair. In the momentary silence that settled between them, Ikora felt an unspoken reciprocation of their generations-old friendship.

"I don't know how long we can protect him," she confessed. 

"Neither do I."

<|endoftext|>

II - FRACTURES

Zavala stared at the terminal window until the words blurred together. He lowered his head and rubbed his eyes, trying to collect his thoughts. There were reports from Hunters in the field. Increased Vex activity across the system. Coordinated attacks on Vanguard operations. Anomalous disturbances within the City. All on top of Eliksni and Human confrontations within the City's walls.

A buzzing hum bloomed to life over Zavala's shoulder, followed by the gentle weight of a Ghost that came to settle there. "Is this the best use of your time?" Targe wondered aloud, which elicited a look from the corner of Zavala's eye. Targe rarely spoke, but when he did, there was always purpose.

"I don't recall asking for your opinion," Zavala said as he tried to refocus.

"I don't recall giving one."

Zavala turned this time to give Targe another look.

"You two can't keep doing the work of three people," Targe insisted. "Talk to Ana again."

Zavala leaned back in his chair. "Targe, there is no way I am going to convince—" 

An alert chimed at the command console to his right.

"Incoming call from Empress Caiatl," Targe said wearily. "Let it go to depot."

Zavala stubbornly rose from his chair. "No," he said, receiving the call. Caiatl's imperial seal appeared on the screen with a notice: AUDIO ONLY.

"Empress Caiatl, to what do I owe the pleasure?" Zavala asked, tiredly scratching a hand over his stubble. Targe watched for a moment before he dematerialized. 

"Commander," Caiatl greeted, her voice swelling to fill the room as if she were standing there. "The fleet's long-range sensors detected a growing anomaly located in the vicinity of the Last City."

"Why the sudden concern?"

Caiatl snorted. "I bear no concern, Commander. But if the Vanguard were suddenly annihilated, it would behoove me to at least be aware."

"Of course," Zavala said softly. "Well, we're still here."

"For now."

The leading edge in her tone hooked him. "Why are you really calling?" 

There was no response from the other side for a few moments. When Caiatl spoke next, her tone was as measured as before, but lacked any performative airs. "Lakshmi-2's latest broadcast to the City reached our fleet," she said. "You are truly a proud hawk standing in a nest of vipers, aren't you?"

"Lakshmi is a politician." 

"Words are the most dangerous of weapons, Commander," Caiatl reminded him. "It begins as whispering convictions, then full-voiced dissent, and the next thing you know, you will wake with a knife driven into your chest."

"Spoken from experience," Zavala jabbed back.

"Spoken from experience," Caiatl doubled down, unashamed. "Lakshmi is undermining the Vanguard's authority by diminishing your role in the eyes of the people. Spoken loudly enough and often enough, her words may begin to make sense even to those who are not of the same mind."

Zavala sighed, and Caiatl felt its weight all the way across the system.

"I trust you to honor the terms of our armistice. I do not trust whomever your successor might be," Caiatl warned.

Zavala weighed anger and intrigue against one another, finding the scales a useless tool in arbitrating his response to the situation. He stepped back to the console and did as Cayde might say: just wing it.

"This is not the first threat to my authority I've weathered," Zavala said, his voice rising. "So don't delude yourself into thinking otherwise. And don't you dare come at me for whatever remorse you might be feeling about deposing your father."

Zavala heard the low rumble of an appreciative vocalization over the speakers. "I do not feel remorse because Calus was my father," Caiatl explained, her tone softening. "I feel remorse because of what Ghaul did to my people. We opened the door for the Hive, handed Xivu Arath a knife, and were surprised when we felt the kiss of steel in our spine."

I hate to see a warrior I admire and respect do the same with a less worthy adversary. But perhaps you are not in need of such unsolicited counsel."

Zavala looked up, out to the lightless city beyond, and closed his eyes. "And what counsel is that?"

What Caiatl said next was not in the voice of an empress, but a friend: "Umun'arath was my most trusted counselor. The Darkness has many hands—will you recognize its caress before it finds your throat?"

<|endoftext|>

III - Gifts from the Shore

Though the metal crate they were carrying likely weighed more than they did, the two Eliksni gave Saint-14 a wide berth on their way to the Eliksni Quarter.

"You see how they distrust," Saint grumbled. Amanda Holliday scanned the crate into her datapad, the unexpected shipment of emergency supplies from the Tangled Shore nearly offloaded.

"Don't be such a sourpuss," she said lightly. "Mixing with new folk's good for the soul."

"I mix!" objected Saint. "But the Fallen… they do not enjoy my company. And I feel the same for them."

"Maybe that's exactly why Ikora picked you for this," Amanda said.

Though Saint was fully helmeted, she could swear he rolled his eyes.

Two more Eliksni came bearing another crate. One noticed Saint too late and stumbled, dropping the crate—its security locks popped as it crashed to the ground. A young Eliksni wearing House of Light colors and a bright orange and blue Vanguard lanyard scampered over in distress.

Saint sighed. "It is fine," he said to the Eliksni. "Spider probably sends more surplus from old House of Dusk. Knowing you carry supplies from our enemies is great joke to him." He dragged the crate out of the walkway with one hand and knelt to repair the locks.

As Amanda scanned the damaged crate, the young Eliksni came closer. He eyed Saint warily, then held up a sheaf of paper like a shield. "Manifest," he stated haltingly. 

"Thank you," Amanda said with unforced brightness. She tapped her datapad. "I've got it digitally."

"You got it digitally," echoed the Eliksni. He fidgeted for a moment, then proudly held up the badge on his lanyard, which read TEMPORARY.

Amanda smiled. "What've you got there?"

"Authorization for unloading of supplies from Tangled Shore. Of supplies sent from Spider," he said. He leaned in slowly, looking carefully at Saint and Amanda. 

"My gentlemen," he added slyly.

Amanda snorted so abruptly that Saint fumbled with a lock, crushing it in his hand.

Saint looked up. "Can you two not be quiet?"

"C'mon now," Amanda admonished Saint lightly. "I don't hear you practicin' your Eliksni, and this fella's doing his best to bridge the gap." 

Amanda turned back to the Eliksni. "That ain't exactly right, but you speak our language pretty well," she said.

"Thank you," answered the Eliksni, clearly eager for conversation. "Do all Humans here serve Spiderkell?"

"Serve Spider?" Amanda spat. "Spider's nothing but a—" and the five spirited words that followed were replete with hard consonants. 

The Eliksni froze, wary of her tone while not understanding her words.

Amanda caught herself and took a breath. "…which is our way of saying he's a kind and generous individual," she said to the Eliksni, who nodded along with her.

"This lock has been ruined by distractions," Saint said as he rose to his feet. He removed the lid and looked inside, then lifted a loose coil of rubbery tubes. 

"Servitor plugs, filters, Ether circulators…" The Titan made a confused noise.

"Something wrong?" Amanda asked.

"Not at all," mumbled Saint as he picked up a small golden cylinder trailing braided sapphire cords. "This rebreather alone is worth more than my ship." 

Amanda moved toward Saint and looked for herself. She recognized a few necessary survival items—condensed prefab ceramic plating, vapor distillers, generator couplings—but amongst the tubes and filters were otherworldly treasures: A nanomesh sphere filled with thick pink liquid. A chrome conduit splitter with entropic plating. A glimmering opal sparkling in a nest of delicate lavender sponges. 

"The hell is Spider playing at?" Amanda said to herself. She called out to the Eliksni: "Are they all like this?" 

"Yes. Each one is very full. Full of delights, from our culture. From our home. We are very thanks." He cocked his head and clicked. "Thankful?"

Amanda nodded. "Let me see that manifest," she said, taking the papers from the Eliksni. He nodded and rejoined the other workers.

"They will still need many of our resources to stay here," Saint said as he carefully resealed the crate, "but this will make things easier. I am surprised Spider is so generous, even to his own people."

Amanda frowned at the manifest. "This doesn't make sense," she said. "There's a note at the top: 'Don't know what half this stuff is, but it's got to be good if Spider had it.' It's all written by hand, and there aren't values for anything on here."

Saint looked at the papers over Amanda's shoulder. "The crates came from Spider's storehouse," he said. "If he did not send them, who did?"

"Look at this listing!" Amanda continued. "This item says 'best osmosis filters (hidden in his bottom drawer).' This item is just a row of question marks. Here's one listed as 'a clock thing.' This line says 'noisy cube: smells bad but everybody likes it.' And what's with this signature?"

Amanda squinted at the shape scrawled at the bottom of the form. "It's a… ship?" she guessed, handing the paper to Saint.

The Titan turned his head as he looked at the drawing. "Aha!" he cried, slapping the paper with the back of his hand. "Look, is bird!"

Amanda looked again at the uneven charcoal lines and could just make out a wobbly black bird. She let out a long breath and shook her head. "Awful artist," she said, "but I guess he's an all right guy." And suddenly, she was smiling.

<|endoftext|>

IV - Conspirators

Arach Jalaal narrowed his eyes with impatience as Dead Orbit's head of logistics struggled to satisfactorily account for the faction's supply caches. The pair had been wandering around the massive Hangar for an hour while an enormous ship was being loaded in the background.

Jalaal had seen the celestial disappearances and the encroachment of the Black Fleet as clear signs that Dead Orbit's final exodus must soon begin. He had ordered a redoubling of departure preparations, but found the faction's rank-and-file struggling to keep pace. 

Jalaal cut off his subordinate's bumbling presentation. "This is insufficient. Earth will soon be behind us, and Dead Orbit will have to survive on the supplies that we provide." His mild tone and half-lidded gaze underscored the gravity of his words. "Supplies that you are in charge of tracking. You do understand that, don't you?" 

A furious blush spread across the administrator's face. He bowed his head and scuttled away as Jalaal crooked his head in annoyance. 

Behind him, a raspy voice floated up from the maze of towering crates: "Leaving us so soon, Jalaal?" 

He turned to find Lakshmi-2 and Executor Hideo. The Future War Cult leader stood formally, hands clasped before her, while the head of New Monarchy browsed the shipping crates with casual interest. 

"This is an impressive collection. I had no idea Dead Orbit was so well funded." Hideo gestured broadly to the crates. 

Jalaal shrugged. "It's a life's work, Hideo. Everything we'll need to re-seed the Human species elsewhere. You should join us." 

"We're fine where we are, thank you," Lakshmi interjected. "As a matter of fact, that's why we've come." 

Jalaal bowed his head and gestured toward the Hangar exit. The trio ambled outside. 

"Hideo and I are concerned about the current Vanguard leadership," Lakshmi began carefully. 

Jalaal allowed himself a mirthless chuckle. "Yes, I've heard your open editorials. You're becoming quite the demagogue. I never knew you held such strong feelings about the Fallen."  

"If it's incitement to speak the truth, then so be it," Lakshmi fired back, sharper than intended. "The Fallen have been a useful catalyst, but that doesn't mean we are wrong." 

"Perhaps not about the Vanguard," Jalaal replied, "but the Cult is hemorrhaging members. And I doubt it's your best and brightest remaining." 

"Those who wish to leave are free to do so," Lakshmi said with a pointed glance toward the Dead Orbit ship. "We'll be stronger without them." 

"Zavala and Ikora have been ineffective since the Speaker died," Executor Hideo cut in. "The disappearance of the planets caught them unprepared. They're allowing Guardians to use the Darkness. And now they've cut a deal with the Cabal?  It's just too much." 

"We must have leadership whose point of view is more closely aligned to that of the people," Lakshmi said. 

"And who do you propose, exactly?" Jalaal stopped the trio at the corner of a broad thoroughfare, where the rumble of cargo movers masked their conversation. 

"Saladin was our first choice," Hideo added with an ill-concealed smirk, "but he's not as cutthroat as he seems. Appears the Iron Lord has a soft spot for Commander Zavala." 

Lakshmi gave Hideo a look, as though he had revealed too much. "We are now considering Saint-14," she said, pointedly bringing the conversation back to the present. 

Jalaal raised an eyebrow. "Who else is committed to your little coup?"  

"We have somebody in a position of influence. Someone who can ensure an orderly transfer of power," Lakshmi answered. 

"That person would have to be very clever indeed," Jalaal said gravely. "For your sake. Ikora Rey is not a target to miss."

The moment stretched as Jalaal measured the situation. He had long considered what a change of leadership might mean for Dead Orbit; for the resettlement and survival of the Human species. And as always, the allure of personal power—a position of eminence in a dying society—was a constant temptation.

<|endoftext|>

V - SABOTAGE

Two dozen Humans, their faces mostly covered with makeshift masks, slunk into the Botza District under cover of darkness. Some were armed with weapons, though most carried workaday tools like crowbars and wrenches.

They planned to infiltrate the Eliksni Quarter and find evidence of aggression. If that failed, they would send a clear message that the House of Light was unwelcome in the Last City. Knives tore into banners. Noxious fumes filled the air. Paint cans rattled. The hum of the machinery around them disguised the sounds of their labor while hushed voices conferred in terse, conspiratorial tones. 

"I think this is their food," a young woman whispered to her male companion while warily looking over her shoulder. She didn't see anyone as they crouched by a large Ether tank, but she imagined the Eliksni crowded together in a nearby building. Did they even sleep? 

"Here, give me a hand with this," her companion said, pointing to what he guessed was a control panel. 

Together they pried the face plate off, revealing a mess of wiring beneath. They shared a furtive glance and began pulling out wires by the fistful, hands shaky, their blood pounding in their ears. 

A low whistle like a bird call fluttered through the night air. When they looked up, a Hunter stood over them only a few paces away, his face shadowed by a cowl. He held his Hand Cannon at hip level, aimed straight at them. 

Their co-conspirators, drawn by the sound, gathered in their periphery, mentally calculating their chances. Not a single one liked the odds. Even those who came armed expected to fight the Fallen, not a Guardian. 

The Hunter called out in a half-whisper: "I don't want any trouble." 

The woman stood frozen as the young man beside her moved toward the Hunter, his jaw set. "No!" his companion hissed. "Are you crazy?" She grabbed his arm to haul him behind the ruined Ether tank, but he wrenched free. 

The young man stepped slowly toward the Hunter. "You're on the wrong side of this thing," he started. 

The Hunter pulled back on his Hand Cannon's hammer with an audible click. 

"I don't think I am," he replied. 

Unwilling to test the Hunter's mettle, the young man called over his shoulder. "Let's go." 

The Hunter narrowed his eyes. He watched as the young man slinked past him and spat at his feet. Something old and terrible rose up inside of the Hunter; it took all of his focus to steady his hand. 

The conspirators peeled away from their hiding places, one by one, disappearing into the dark. Some hissed choice insults and dispersions at the Hunter under their breath, though none dared to look at him. 

In just a few minutes, the block was deserted except for the Hunter, who stood alone in the street until his Ghost complied over his shoulder. 

It chirped with concern. "You wouldn't really have shot them, right?" 

The Hunter hesitated as he holstered his weapon. "They needed to know I was serious, Glint." 

"But you weren't," his Ghost insisted. Wordlessly, the Hunter began making his way through the destruction. Someone would sound the alarm soon—he didn't want to be there when they did. 

"Tell me you weren't serious," his Ghost said again, lagging behind, "…were you?"

<|endoftext|>

VI - UNDERSTANDING

Ikora Rey strode into the Future War Cult headquarters. It had the air of a church—hushed and reverent, but the air of sanctity was undercut by the intrusion of Vex technology. Wires climbed like vines across the ceiling, and the air was filled with the faint smell of ozone. In the middle of the room, reclining on a seat reminiscent of both throne and operating table, was Lakshmi-2. Her face was obscured by a helmet that connected to the mess of wiring above.

Studious Cultists shuffled about with their heads bowed, glancing suspiciously at Ikora. As the Warlock advanced, a Cultist held up a single finger, commanding both silence and patience. Ikora's eyes narrowed. The Cultist whispered into a small microphone next to the Device. Its subaudible hum had been inconspicuous, but once it powered down, the quiet felt overwhelming to Ikora. 

Lakshmi sat in repose, presumably orienting herself in the current timeline. "Leave us," she said without opening her eyes. "We'll resume at 14:25." Her subordinates filtered from the room, looking past Ikora as if she were invisible. 

Lakshmi finally opened her eyes, and fixed them on the Warlock. "I assume you're here to bargain." 

"I'm not." Ikora's tone was calm and cold. "I'm here to issue a warning of my own." 

"Warn me?" Lakshmi laughed, her voice thin. 

"If we have any further incidents on account of your incitement, I will personally find a remote, icy moon to leave you on." 

 Lakshmi tutted. "Only small minds classify prophecy as provocation." She stood up and smoothed her garments. 

"Certainty in the face of the unknown is the provenance of zealots." Ikora eyed the Device. "And the insane. This isn't a debate." 

"And yet, you are still here. Come, Ikora, you've not seen what I have." Lakshmi gestured to the Device. "The Botza District under assault for a second time. Saint-14, pinned down by gunfire. And you…" she trailed off, "screaming for help over the comms." 

"How many of your prophecies have gone unfulfilled, Lakshmi?" Ikora snapped. "I wish you could hear yourself; how afraid you sound." 

"All those years studying under Osiris, and you're still so naïve," Lakshmi replied. 

Ikora's anger flared. She advanced on the Cult leader. "Cut the B.S., or suffer the consequences. Understand?" 

Undaunted, Lakshmi's artificial eyes shone bright. "Understood." 

Ikora stepped back and let her anger pass out of her with a sigh. "Then we're done here." She turned on her heels and strode out. 

As she left, Ikora wondered whose prophecy she had just fulfilled—Lakshmi's or her own.

<|endoftext|>

VII - Ripe

I walk through the City on broken legs. I am conspicuous, but the people here grant me many affordances.

I chose this form well.

I sway and catch myself on a low stone wall. I am ready earlier than anticipated, but I must still learn the next step. I look up toward the false dusk I have hung, but it is not yet finished. 

I am afraid, but it is thrilling to engage in something new after all this time, something unknown. I close my eyes tightly so they do not bulge.

The feeling passes. I open my eyes and search the faces of the people around me for familiarity. I did not mean to. I twist inwardly with disgust.

When they first reached for me, I reached back in acid mockery, and they opened themselves to me in stupid, naked innocence. I was giddy. My fingers raked their minds. I forced my will through them using only words and met no resistance. Their naiveté was beyond description, and I feasted until my eyes welled with black tears.

Now I reach as often as they do, and when they reach back, I am thankful.

I speak with them. I seek their company. Their companionship.

This is not pity, for I know pity. What is this—

I drop to both knees, clear my mouth, and vomit. The thin black fluid turns to vapor and disappears. 

I clench the gangling black mass that threatens to unspool recklessly from within this shell of flesh. My new arms are too thin, too weak. My new shell still bound with thick mucus. Not yet, I say.

A moment of blackness, and then…

A man places his hands on me, on my shoulders, on my back. He asks if I am ill, and he sees my flat eyes, my teeth black with ripeness, and he prepares to scream.

I let him keep his mind. I push breath up and through my ruined mouth and speak a simple lie.

He stops, smiles, laughs. Shakes his head. He points a finger at me in mocking admonishment before walking away.

I swallow the fatty morsel of his ignorance and it gives me the strength to stand once more, cover my face, and resume my walk. I feel this form splitting beneath its wrappings, held together weakly by wet strands of sinew. And from deep inside, stirred by that latest scrap of deception, I hear the oily growl of the Worm.

Even here, basted in deception both ample and rich, the Worm cries ravenously. It has grown grotesque, skin taut, overfed, and still it howls for more. It commands me to keep it alive.

I look up, beyond the flickering net of darkness, and see what rests just beyond. Waiting for me.

The Worm roars.

<|endoftext|>

VIII - GILDED KNIVES

They say the promenade of the Core District never sleeps. In times of celebration, it was a parade ground meant to extol the virtues of the Guardians and show the people of the City the faces of their often-distant defenders. To see it empty was almost unheard of since the Red War.

Executor Hideo of New Monarchy walked alongside Lakshmi-2 of Future War Cult, observing vendor stalls decorated in neon lights that flickered intermittently as they passed. But there were no vendors, no proprietors. Hideo glanced over his shoulder at the four Future War Cult security officers that followed behind them at a respectful distance.

"Do you remember the last time this street was empty?" he asked.

"Yes," Lakshmi said with a heavy heart. "They called me a fool then as well." She did nothing to hide the contempt in her voice. "We make mistakes in circles, Hideo. Walking in a loop of our own self-made despair."

Before he could formulate a response, Hideo spotted the reason for their walk through the Endless Night: a towering behemoth of chrome and lavender cloth, hunched over in an abandoned plaza.

Saint-14 focused on the birds underfoot, scattering a handmade mix of seed on the ground while he cooed contentedly at the pigeons. "You have chosen poor night for walk," he observed as Hideo and Lakshmi approached. "Do you need escort back to Tower?"

Hideo shook his head. "No, Saint. We went to find you in the Hangar, and Ms. Holliday informed us that you had come here to…" He eyed the birds. "…contemplate."

"Birds are uncomplicated. Good conversationalists. They give me room to think," Saint said with a smile in his voice. "How can I help?"

"The Consensus has struggled, as of late, with some of the Vanguard's decisions regarding the City's security. We wanted to expand that conversation to include you," Lakshmi said.

"But not Arach Jalaal?" Saint asked, a more pointed and cunning response than either Hideo or Lakshmi anticipated.

"No," Hideo quickly confirmed. 

Lakshmi verbally maneuvered around Hideo's answer like water around a stone. "This is about ensuring that the best interests of the City are at the forefront of the Vanguard's mind."

Saint fixed his helmed visage on Lakshmi. "The Eliksni." A statement, not a question.

"The Vanguard are a military force, and the Consensus does not doubt their commitment to defending the City beyond its borders." Lakshmi carefully worded her approach. "But we have come to doubt that a military force is the best governance for the City inside of its walls."

Saint squared his shoulders as if presented a challenge and looked between Hideo and Lakshmi. His stoicism twisted Hideo's stomach into knots.

"We would like to propose a restructuring of the City's leadership. Placing the Vanguard as the authority for what goes on outside the walls…" Hideo gestured toward the mountains. "And respective leadership here inside the City." He motioned to Saint.

"This is bad plan," Saint said without any attempt at obfuscating his feelings.

"Surely you understand that tactical options in the field do not always apply unilaterally in a civilian quarter," Hideo pleaded. "On top of that, the Vanguard is stretched too thin. They cannot be the leadership they need to be."

Saint balked. "Then why come to me? I am no politician."

"But you are a leader," Lakshmi countered as she placed a hand over her chest. "A hero. A symbol to the people."

Saint drew in a steady breath and grew silent. 

"It may not feel like the right choice because of your personal feelings toward Commander Zavala and Ikora. Change can sometimes feel distasteful. But I know you aren't one to ignore your sense of duty."

Saint looked down at his feet, at the birds, at the seed. "I must speak with Osiris," he asserted.

Lakshmi briefly regarded Hideo and nodded. "Give your partner our regards."

"I will," Saint said stiffly, scattering the last of the seed in his hand to the birds before departing the plaza.

Hideo and Lakshmi waited under the watchful eye of the Traveler until Saint was gone.

"If he tells Zavala or Ikora…" Hideo said through clenched teeth.

"Osiris will stop him from doing anything so stupid," Lakshmi said, the softness in her voice gone. "And if he is so shortsighted as to refuse us as Saladin did…"

Hideo's stomach twisted again.

<|endoftext|>

IX - PREDICTION

In the days that followed Quria's defeat, the sky lightened, and so did the City's mood as the Endless Night began to slowly lift.

 Lakshmi-2 stood high on the City walls, watching adventurous citizens mingle with the Eliksni. She focused her attention on an Eliksni peddler, who had fashioned several small robots from discarded scrap. A small gaggle of children stood across the way, clearly interested in the robots as they moved aimlessly, but too frightened to approach.  Lakshmi knew that the peddler would sell one of the robots, but none of the scrap, and end the day discouraged.

It's a bright new day, she thought. 

"It's a bright new day," a deep voice called out. Lakshmi turned to see the former Warlock Osiris striding along the wall toward her. 

"What a strange choice of words," Lakshmi answered. "The Darkness is closer than ever." And in the darkness, it's sometimes difficult to tell friend from foe. She remembered this conversation from her time in the Device. Many of the potential futures it showed her led to this moment. Osiris was growing predictable. 

"It is," Osiris said. "And in the darkness, it's hard to tell friend from foe." 

Lakshmi smiled inwardly. They were still well within the standard deviation. "I'm surprised to hear you say that, Osiris. You are normally blessed with such uncommon clarity." 

"My perspective has changed since I lost the Light," Osiris began slowly. "Time is suddenly finite. It makes everything seem more… changeable. And if my perception can change, perhaps my enemies can as well." 

"The folly of mortality." Lakshmi gestured to the scene below. "Those people could never understand time as we do, Osiris. You've peered behind the veil. You've seen the Vex simulations stretching endlessly. You understand that history is changeable… but also inevitable." 

"I used to be certain of that," he agreed. "But now I have to wonder, if history is inevitable, why am I constantly surprised?" 

Lakshmi chuckled. She had heard his comment before, of course, but her premonition had not adequately conveyed his fatuousness. 

"And what do you think, Osiris? Will this bright new day last?" She nodded toward the Eliksni settlement. "Are we meant to share the Light with the Fallen?" 

As if you would know, she thought. You no longer deal in predictions. 

"I've given up on prediction, Lakshmi. I put my fate in the hands of the Traveler now more than ever before." He gave her a sidelong glance. "And what do you say? Is this a new dawn?" 

Lakshmi recalled the vision she had so fervently sought within the Device. The realization of her righteous victory over the Eliksni—historical and preordained all at once. Her life's work, crawling minute by minute from the future into the present. 

"No," she replied. "This is just a flash of lightning before the coming storm."

<|endoftext|>

X - MEMORIAL

The air up on the wall was thin; Lakshmi was right about that.

Mithrax stood in silent observation of the memorial above the main concourse. He leaned against an iron railing, watching Guardians and citizens alike moving below, Eliksni with them.

A Dreg approached the memorial and led his child to stand among the mourners. Urged forward by a gentle nudge, the child gingerly placed a gilded eggshell at the memorial's base. Gold soldering sealed a myriad of fractures, making a once broken egg whole again. Mithrax's throat tightened at the sight. It was a memorial for a child. Lost.

The walkway behind Mithrax groaned as Saint-14 cut a large silhouette against the clear sky. Shoulder to shoulder, they stood. Neither spoke.

They watched as Ikora and Zavala conversed with departing mourners. The Dreg and his son approached, and with a bittersweet smile, Ikora made certain to introduce them to Zavala. Big, stern, stoic Zavala took to one knee and spoke to the child, eye to eye.

"I never thought I'd see the day," Saint finally said, unable to look away.

Mithrax responded, not with words, but with a fluttering purr-like rumble and mirrored Saint's posture.

"Do you think this will hold? An alliance, fragile like glass, held in a fist?" Saint asked.

"Only the Great Machine knows what will come from over the horizon. We must be content with our own limited perspectives," Mithrax said with conviction.

Saint nodded. Down below, Amanda Holliday drew their attention as she knelt before the memorial to light a candle. She stood and stepped back, lingering. Mithrax and Saint watched in silence as she rose up on her toes and began scanning through the crowd. As if she were looking for someone.

She gently pushed through the throng of people and reached out to another mourner in a white cloak. Both recoiled in surprise, Amanda seemingly apologizing to the cloaked woman at some misunderstanding. They exchanged brief words, awkward laughs, sympathies. When Amanda caught sight of Lord Saladin, however, she took her leave and disappeared into the crowd.

Mourners parted around the Iron Lord, respectful of his space and reputation as he laid a handful of spent shell casings at the memorial with reverence. The offering's meaning was lost on Mithrax.

When Saladin rose from the memorial, he turned and looked up at the pair on the overwatch, his face cast in shades of doubt, remorse, and uncertainty as he quietly departed.

"I do not know that one," Mithrax said with a look to Saint. "He seems… unhappy."

Saint slowly shook his head. "Lord Saladin," he clarified. "He has lost many. Lost his heart, his hope. Lost so many, he believes he stands alone, even when surrounded by others. I understand his pain. I see…" Saint thinks on how Osiris would describe it. "…his cautionary tale."

Mithrax heard the ache in Saint's voice. "And how are you?"

Saint tensed at the question. The railing in his hand creaked as his grip tightened and bent the metal. "I am fine," he lied.

"Indeed," Mithrax said with his best affectation of sarcasm, then placed a hand on Saint's shoulder. "It is not above a warrior's station to feel pain. Not above a warrior's station to express spirit-wounds." Mithrax's grip firmed on Saint's shoulder; reassuring, stabilizing. "Not above a warrior's station to break."

Saint nodded in half-hearted agreement. "I should go," he said in a tone Mithrax didn't quite understand. "Thank you, Kell of Kells. You are true friend."

"Go well, Saint," Mithrax said with concern. "Find your lost phoenix."

<|endoftext|>

I - Ambush

Caiatl stands on the bridge of her flagship, six destroyer-class warcraft at her flanks. Weeks of intelligence and a handful of dead spies have brought her to a single point in space. This moment of opportunity.

A massive, reinforced viewport extends from beneath her feet to the ceiling of the bridge. Through it, dead-still azure banners obscure the distant Awoken Reef. From Caiatl's perspective, it appears as a slurry of glitz and dust to be swept away at her command—an idea her advisors spoke of all too frequently. Their soft conflict with one city had left some eager for a decisive victory in another. It was a distraction.

In the space between Caiatl and the Reef, just beyond the unmoving banners, malachite-licked wisps of intent tear open the space between her and the shimmering dust. Long black spindles of Hive workmanship pierce the rift first, preceding a massive Tomb Carrier twice the size of her flagship.

Caiatl addresses her bridge officers. "Wait until they're through and cannot flee."

Her destroyers take up flanking positions opposite of her own as Caiatl orders her flagship to maneuver above the massive Tomb Carrier.

When the rift shuts, the order comes over Cabal comms: "Strike."

The six destroyers spring their diversionary attack. Caiatl feels the pressure waves from their silent cannons wash over her as their shells detonate. Tomb Carrier and Cabal warcraft exchange a harrowing gauntlet of ordnance. The diversion is working.

"Point us straight at their midsection. Launch ballista crews," Caiatl barks. "Inform me when they've taken the bridge."

Emerald flare wells deep in the Tomb Carrier's main gun like a brewing cauldron lined with obsidian teeth. The barrel: a massive column of vertebrae from some leviathan creature, ignites with ten thousand Hive runes. The Tomb Carrier belches streams of malefic flame that effortlessly obliterates two spearheading Cabal destroyers. Caiatl steps forward in horror as their hulls erupt in a series of soulfire explosions.

"Don't let that gun fire again! Protect our destroyers!" She pivots to her navigation office. "Bring the ship to minimum jump speed. Full power to the mains!"

Caiatl thrusts a finger at the Tomb Carrier. "Engage the Aries ram and prepare for impact!"

The flagship hurtles toward the Tomb Carrier, unleashing a full salvo of cannons and warheads to soften the Carrier's carapace.

Caiatl turns to a bridge crew Legionary as the Tomb Carrier rapidly expands in the viewport behind her. "Fetch my shield."

***

On the other side of the Reef, Queen Mara Sov watches through a Dreaming City aperture as the battle unfolds on her borders. The inscrutable expression on her face twists with each distant explosion. Petra wishes the small tensing motions would give some indication of what her queen is thinking. Instead, she sees only the cold stare of one predator assessing the size and strength of another.

Petra looks to the knife Mara is idly toying with and notices a detail she hadn't before: a pair of kestrels etched into the blade, wings intertwined, linework so fine that she has to squint to recognize their silhouettes.

Petra frowns. "My queen?" she asks, but Mara does not shift her attention from the battle.

"Caiatl's war games will keep Xivu Arath occupied while we focus on recovering our lost Techeuns," Mara says. She uses the point of the knife to trace the longest line along her palm. "Neither will be able to launch a full-scale attack on the Dreaming City while the other is at her throat."

"Savathûn first?" ventures Petra.

Mara's stoic façade cracks. She looks down at the blade, at the twin kestrels, and sees something in her own reflection that unsettles her.

"Savathûn first," she agrees, sheathing the weapon so she doesn't have to think about it.

<|endoftext|>

II - The Pigeon and the Splicer

Saint-14 sits with his Ghost, Geppetto, in his Gray Pigeon jumpship. "You do not want me to go alone?"

"You should not go alone, Brother Saint. The system is in a volatile state." 

Saint sighs. "There is not a Guardian in the Tower who does not wish to ask me about Osiris. I cannot, Geppetto." 

"Then do not ask a Guardian," Geppetto presses.

Mithrax is finishing repairs on a Shank when he sees Saint-14 transmat into the Botza District. He watches the Saint greet a pair of Eliksni startled by his materialization. He watches the Guardian bow and the Eliksni hesitantly bow back. Saint-14 catches Mithrax's gaze and extends an arm toward him, as if asking permission to enter his workshop. It is not needed. 

Mithrax stands and welcomes Saint-14 as he crosses the threshold. 

"Vell-ahsk," Saint manages. 

Mithrax chatters. "Velask, Saint." 

"May we speak alone?" 

"Of course." Mithrax shuts and latches a door clearly transplanted from a Ketch. "Speak freely."

"I would not normally come to you asking for favors," Saint says, pacing.

"House Light will aid you if we are able."

Saint nods to himself. "Osiris, the real Osiris—Savathûn took his form and hid him away. Or so she says."

Mithrax bows his head. "The true Osiris is innocent? All is not as dire as we presumed."

"So it would seem. I need to find Osiris. I want to take away the Witch Queen's leverage. When she is broken, the Reef Queen can have her," Saint growls.

"Mara Sov has returned?" Mithrax drags sharply on his rebreather. "Grand pieces are in motion. How do I assist?"

"I am searching for the exact spot Sagira fell. Savathûn captured him there, I know it," Saint says.

"The name Sagira was spoken often in House of Wolves, with respect. House Dusk told all Houses Sagira fell on Earth's moon, but I know not where. May she find peace in the Light."

"She is missed." Saint holds a moment in reverence. "Osiris's last transmission was from beneath the Moon's surface. But the Pyramid's interference made it impossible to determine the exact location. It is too large an area to search."

"Hive machines are without spirits. Morbid constructs a Splicer's gauntlet cannot access for information," Mithrax says apologetically. "But I wish to help the Saint, as the Saint helped Misraaks and House Light." 

"Then… your company would be appreciated as I search."

Mithrax is lost in thought momentarily before his eyes sharpen. "The Vex on Europa kept records of defeated Guardians. And likely, Ghosts. It may be possible to find Sagira's gravesite using their network."

"What?" Saint exclaims.

"Perhaps it is their proximity to Darkness that causes them to do so. But Misraaks has seen such records, as I explored their network for knowledge to affix Splicer technology to Guardian arms."

"You sound like a Warlock, so I trust you. Show me how we do this."

***

"Europa," Saint mutters. "Could we not have gone somewhere warmer?" he asks, dismounting his Ram Sparrow on a cliff overlooking the Asterion Abyss. "I am used to the simulated sun of Mercury."

Mithrax dismounts beside Saint. "Vex apertures on Europa afford unique opportunity. We seek an invitation into that opportunity."

Saint rolls his shoulders. "We crush Vex Mind and use its brain like key. Yes, yes. This is not news to me. You forget I spent many years in Infinite Forest."

"A brutal, but apt description." Mithrax chitters to himself. "We will have to draw out a Vex Mind. The override integration here remains active. The Light provides."

"You splice computer hole. I crush the Mind." Saint starts to walk forward but then halts abruptly. "Do not drop me into computer hole."

"Misraaks will warn the Saint first."

 "You better." Saint turns to the Eliksni. "I joke about the cold, Light-friend, but I am glad to have you here."

"I share in your glad, Saint."

They walk together. Swiftly, Mithrax forges the integration. As they come under fire, a violet refuge takes hold around him—he stands within the Saint's Ward, fearless and with clear sight.

The Vex are numerous. They too know the Saint. He lives up to their records. The Mind is broken.

<|endoftext|>

III - Risen from Bones

Kelgorath, Knight champion of death, kneels before his shrine of bone in the fog-ridden depths of the Ascendant Plane. Soulfire recedes into the ground around him. He places his forehead against the shrine, smudging a freshly bloodied sigil of Xivu Arath. He has added so many layers, but this is the first time the blood is his own. He does so to show his devotion. To reject the heretic sister. To pledge himself anew to war.

The Ascendant sky churns around him. He breaths deeply. It is his first breath of this life. He looks to the shrine before him; every vanquished contender ground to meal and packed between skulls to cement them in place. Trinkets of conquest and old spent weapons adorn the shrine from base to apex.

He looks to them as he prepares to face his adversary.

An empty Ghost whose core he had gifted to defected Scarlet Wizards. Its Guardian had ended him many times, but he is Kelgorath, and through battle he is reborn. No Guardian can escape him, for they are heralds of death and he swims in their wake.

His eyes drift to another conquest: crystalline implants torn from the forehead of an Awoken Techeun. He hunted her through the Ley Lines for three days, tracking her by the stench of her fear. When he found her, she brought the Ascendant Plane down on him. He did not fall for this trick twice.

He caught her again with his next life. The Techeun's final words echoed in his thoughts: "I still see the flecks of scarlet in your chitin. How quickly you abandon your Witch Queen."

Kelgorath recalls the night he renounced Savathûn. The night he had scoured the scarlet from his flesh on the serration beds deep within the Hellmouth. The night Osiris slaughtered all Crota's kin. Savathûn was weak to allow their deaths. To cede ground to the Celebrant; to Guardians. Xivu Arath avenged them. Xivu Arath took Osiris's Light, and Kelgorath guzzled from it with vows of vengeance.

He would prove his allegiance by stamping out any trace of the heretic sister. Hurdru, his adversary, was a Knight who still claimed fealty to Savathûn; Hurdru would be an instrument of example. Through battle, Kelgorath would confirm his new god. Through blood, he would erase the name Savathûn and don that of Xivu Arath.

He stands. Bows. Grips the cleaver and shield he will carry until he falls again. "Hurdru," he whispers to the bones.

Tonight, he will purify himself in death.

<|endoftext|>

IV - Art

Petra Venj hangs her head and examines the hilt of her sheathed knife. Transmat particles still swirl in the air around her like tiny flecks of dust as she steps forward back through the H.E.L.M. gate to answer her queen's summons.

Mara Sov's voice washes over the chamber's stone and crystal: "He belongs here, Petra. This place draws his old self out." She pauses, knowing Petra will be silent while allowing her to steep in the words. "You saw it, too. He should have never been allowed to leave."

"I wish I hadn't," Petra says with a heavy sigh. "How am I to proceed?"

Mara stands on the terrace above her. "Give him only morsels of who he could be, nothing substantial. He is a canvas on which work has already begun. I mean only to guide that work to a familiar conclusion. Such things cannot be rushed."

Petra shifts her stance anxiously. "You—you're sure?"

"Are you questioning me, Petra?"

"Never, my queen. But I do worry that he is vulnerable to Savathûn's influence," Petra offers. "She clearly has taken an interest in him for some time now. And he clearly reciprocates that interest."

"Your words hold no falsehood. You and I will mitigate this danger. If Crow and Uldren are to meet, it must be a subtle progression." Mara Sov leans over the terrace railing. "I believe my brother's recovery is possible, Petra. Will you help me?"

Without a moment of hesitation, Petra responds, "I will do anything you ask, my queen." But doubts sprout in her mind. "If he does become…  problematic…" Petra trails off, searching for the right words.

"You needn't worry," Mara soothes. "If Savathûn moves to exploit him, I will put an end to it myself."

<|endoftext|>

V - Wick Burnt Black

"Saint's recent reports were… unfocused," Zavala says with a sigh.

Ikora nods from across the office. She stands with her arms crossed tightly over her chest. "He suffered through an eternity of battle to keep us safe. Then he comes to the Tower and lets his guard down—lets himself care for someone—and that's when he gets hurt."

She grimaces. "Badly."

Zavala shifts in his chair and runs his large hands over his desk. His palms have memorized its every bump, every groove. "I'm giving him space, but I don't know what else I can do. I'm not sure if he even believes the real Osiris is hidden away somewhere, but he's out there all the same. He just has to do something."

"I can understand that feeling," Ikora says quietly. "That's what I should have been doing. Seeing things my Hidden missed. Out in the field, putting the pieces together."

Her lip curls in disgust. "Not wasting time in the Tower, waiting for an attack."

Zavala looks up at her and frowns. "It's not like you to second-guess yourself."

Ikora's jaw tightens. Bitter fire flickers in her eyes. "Maybe I should." Her voice is brittle. "I brought Osiris—Savathûn—inside our walls."

"Yes, as you did with Mithrax and the House of Light," Zavala counters evenly.

But Ikora lowers her eyes. "People died for that too."

As Zavala rises from his seat, she turns away; the last thing she wants is to be comforted. She hears him lean against his desk, and a patient silence fills the room.

Finally, Ikora lets her arms fall to her sides. When she looks at Zavala, his expression is one of confusion rather than concern.

"It's been years since I've heard you talk like this," he says.

Frustration rises in her. "I looked in his eyes and didn't see it."

"Neither did I. None of us did."

Zavala's face looks almost serene, which makes Ikora want to hurl a Nova Bomb into it.

"Listen," he says. "We have conquered the Cabal in their arenas. We have chased the Hive into their Ascendant Planes; the Vex deep into their network. We have been tricked by the god of trickery, and we have fought the god of war on the battlefield."

Zavala's mouth tightens into a grim line. "When we go up against gods, we fight them on their terms. That usually means we take the first hit. We can't choose when that happens, but we can make damn sure we're the ones left standing."

He sits back down at his desk and racks a sheaf of papers, as if putting a period on his sentence. Ikora clasps her hands behind her back, then takes a long breath. 

"I'll support him as best I can," she says. "Share all my intel on Osiris—anything we learned while my Hidden were shadowing Crow after he first rose. If Savathûn left a trail, I'll find it."

"I know you will," Zavala says.

Ikora allows his words to reach her. "I wish there was a way to get him back," she says quietly.

"Saint or Osiris?" Zavala asks, looking up.

The hem of Ikora's robe whispers softly across the floor as she leaves the office.

<|endoftext|>

VI - Isolation

Space is loneliness. Far removed from any of the system's planets, it is at once suffocatingly dark and blindingly bright depending on which way you turn. A jumpship sits in a fixed position in the black, engines off, oriented so its underbelly faces the glare of the distant sun.

There is no true cockpit inside the Radiant Accipiter; the ship's canopy projects an image to the pilot. No frame, no obstructions, just the infinite gulf. Crow stares up at the blackness between a cluster of stars he can't identify; he wishes he were there. Where nothing is known, where everything can be new again.

Glint rests in his Guardian's lap. He's accustomed to Crow's hands cradling him as though he were a small cat—but in this moment, Crow's head is instead in his hands, fingers tangled in his hair.

Glint is silent, patient. He knows he has to be.

Crow makes a small sound in the back of his throat and the Ghost stirs. When this is followed by an unsteady hitch in his breathing, Glint floats up, presses himself to Crow's chest, and begins to hum.

Crow's hands close around him, clutching him against his heart.

And that's how Glint knows: Crow is still the same inside.

***

Sulfurous plumes rise from fissures in the Venusian soil. Crow marches across the planet's surface, his boots crushing thin sheets of calcium that skim across shallow, iridescent pools of water. His jumpship is perched atop a rise nearby, clear of the unstable field he now traverses.

"Crow, please," Glint pleads over his Guardian's shoulder. "Can you tell me why we're here?"

Ahead, clouds of light and geometric shapes bloom into being. Glint lets out a sharp gasp and transmats away as Crow reaches for the hand cannon at his side. By the time the first Vex Goblin manifests, Crow has already trained his sights on it.

A single pull of the trigger takes the machine's head off and sends it staggering across the field, firing blindly. Two more Goblins appear nearby and Crow blasts away their limbs like a child separating a fly from its wings. He ends them with the last bullets in the cylinder.

A shimmer of violet light within the temporal storm heralds the arrival of a Vex Minotaur. It bellows a roar across the Venusian flats and fires a volley of energized plasma through the air. Crow weaves between them, tumbles forward through the shallow pools, and rises to his feet to shake out his hand cannon's cylinder, sending brass shell casings raining to the ground.

The Minotaur revises its place in history, appearing to teleport forward as it shifts to a more advantageous future. It closes in on Crow before he can finish reloading and grabs him by the head, hefting him off his feet. The Minotaur raises its plasma cannon to Crow's chest and—

***

Crow sucks in a sharp breath and his eyes open to winged serpents circling in the cloudy Venusian sky. He coughs violently, rolling onto his side. The Vex are gone.

"That was stupid," Glint chastises suddenly, and Crow remembers where—and when—he is. "Why didn't you use your Light?"

"I wanted to test something," Crow says on sharp exhale. He pushes himself to his feet, only to find Glint an inch in front of his nose.

"What could you possibly be testing all the way out here?" the little Ghost asks, looking around the desolate landscape. Then, the question Glint doesn't want to ask: "Were you trying to hurt yourself?"

"No," Crow seethes. He nudges Glint to the side and starts to head back for the jumpship, but Glint persists.

"Then why?" he demands, blocking Crow's path.

"Because I wanted to know I was still me!" Crow snarls, his teeth bared in a display of fury. "Uldren Sov could defeat a Minotaur without the Light." His hackles lower. "I needed—I need to be sure that I'm not him. That you could still bring me back. That I was still—worthy of this !"

Glint's monocular eye bobs down to look at the ground. He is silent.

This time, Crow doesn't try to push past him. He stands still, listening to the blast of distant geysers, to the call of serpents in the sky.

"I'm sorry," Glint whispers.

<|endoftext|>

VII - Interpolation

"I hate you."

It's the first thing Mara says on reaching Savathûn's crystalline prison. Her words lack heat but echo through the cavernous chamber nonetheless. "I just want to be absolutely clear on this: I hate you, and I wish nothing but pain and suffering for the rest of your miserable existence."

The crystal shimmers, and Savathûn's gentle laughter ripples through Mara's mind. "I know," the Witch Queen murmurs.

"I could have you jettisoned into the sun," Mara says coolly, "but unlike some creatures, I uphold my word when I give it."

"But we're the same creature, are we not?" Savathûn wonders. Although Mara can't see her smile, she has no difficulty imagining what it looks like.

"I am nothing like you."

"No, of course not." Savathûn's voice is easy and languid. Some might mistake her for being sincere; Mara has taken the same tone too many times in her own life not to recognize it for what it is.

"I thought you were a powerful, competent woman plagued by a difficult relationship with her family," Savathûn says. "Someone who weaves complicated, long-spun schemes across the arc of time's bow. My mistake."

Mara stares at the crystal, clenches her jaw, and turns her back to leave. But before she can take even one step toward the door, she feels Savathûn's consciousness brush like silk against hers.

"I thought you were someone who believes herself to be so smart," Savathûn purrs, "that she is easily blinded by her own ambitions and self-appointed genius. Someone who is so certain of her solutions that she fails to see the inherent peril in her plans, and yet too embarrassed to ever admit she may have gone astray."

Tension knots the muscles in Mara's shoulders and back. Over the years, she has trained her face to remain a mask, but she is not always as skilled when it comes to the rest of her body.

Savathûn continues. "I thought you were someone so afraid of being vulnerable, that you'd rather fail than—"

"Enough." Mara rounds on Savathûn's prison with the precision of an angry viper. She does not raise her voice; instead, she lowers it. "That might work on him," she says, the last word like fire on her lips because it still pains her to refer to Crow by any name, "but you'll find my armor has fewer gaps."

Power surges around her hands as she slams them against the crystalline surface. A lattice of radiant energy winds itself around Savathûn's prison, and Mara hopes that the furious drumming of her heart and intermittent flare of her nostrils will be mistaken for exertion—not a different kind of weakness.

When the spell is complete, Mara steps back. Her glowing eyes dim. She wavers with fatigue, listening for the psychic echo of Savathûn's voice inside her skull.

There is only silence.

"Shut up," Mara breathes—a strange marriage of relief and loathing.

"Shut up."

<|endoftext|>

VIII - Correspondence

Brother—

The Witch Queen has been banished from the Dreaming City. We are no longer bound by her secrets. You are no longer bound by your own.

I have been told my trajectory leads to solitude. In truth, I believed myself arrived for some time. I would change course if given the opportunity.

There was a time I feared you would lose yourself trying to follow me. That time has passed. No matter the name you take, you are unrepentantly yourself—which is to say reluctant and stubborn in ways I find enraging. And I love you for it.

I ask neither forgiveness nor understanding. I offer only sanctuary—and tea, if you would be amenable.

I am here if you decide to come home.

—Mara

<|endoftext|>

Europa – 1

"You're not going to make fun of him, are you?" the administrator asked with a raise of her eyebrow. "He's been through enough already." 

"Just the opposite," Glint assured her. "I'm one of the few people who actually believes him!" 

"Huh," the administrator replied. 

She tapped her datapad and brought up the requested Hidden reports. Glint transmitted the authorization code Ikora had given him, and he received the decrypted upload seconds later. 

"Robots who believe in the Headless Ones." She shook her head. "It boggles the mind." 

"Ghost, actually," Glint corrected.

You believe in ghosts too?" The administrator tut-tutted. "I never figured the Traveler would have made you lot so gullible. Thought you little guys were supposed to be super smart. I mean, you're basically living computers, right?" 

"I think we're sentient energy signatures, housed in a cybernetic construct," Glint said, trying not to be offended. "But I do have an internal database, if that's what you mean."

The administrator turned back to her workstation. "Well, good luck on your wild goose chase, Mister Energy Signature."

<|endoftext|>

Europa – 2

The following audio imprint was recovered by Glint, the Ghost, during scans of an Exo production facility on Europa. Its origin remains a mystery. 

"We all saw it: the machine tower, buried in ice. 

"At first, we thought it was a glitch. Some kind of psychological artifacting, created by the transfer of our consciousnesses into a digital format. The bio-mind just trying to adapt to life in a machine body. Inconsistencies like that are pretty common, especially right after a reboot. 

"What isn't common is for a whole group of us to experience the exact same vision at the same time. If it's a glitch, it must be a subroutine buried further down than any of us have diagnosed before. Something we all have in common, from before the reboot. 

"But if it's not a glitch, then… what the hell is it?"

<|endoftext|>

Europa – 3

"Well, Glint, I wouldn't classify that as evidence per se," Cryptarch Matsuo hedged. "The spontaneous creation of similar legends in disparate cultures is a well-documented phenomenon. Even in the absence of direct communication. Some scholars call it 'simultaneous invention.'" 

"For instance," he continued, "the Yetis of Himalayan folklore and the Lumbering Jacks of North American legend. Both reclusive ape-like creatures said to populate the wilderness. Or the Centaur of Greek mythology and the Sheepdog of Northern Europe. Both mythical creatures said to be hybrids of other species. Etcetera." 

"So, yes. It is interesting that so many cultures have stories of the 'Headless Ones,' but that doesn't prove they exist. If anything, it suggests that simultaneous invention is much more universal than previously thought," Matsuo concluded.

<|endoftext|>

Europa – 4

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 34JM4P4PXQMM1-018
HIDDEN AGENT(S): [REDACTED] 
RE: Europan Vex Activity

Skirmishes are common in the noted sectors. Neither side seems committed to territorial expansion. 

I'm reluctant to report that I had another sighting in the glacial cave near Cadmus Ridge. This time, I managed to get a good look at the creature with my rangefinder. The body was unmistakably that of a Hive Knight, while the helmet (or head?) appeared to be that of a… pumpkin. 

The pumpkin appeared to have a face carved into it. Three eyes and a big smiling mouth. With… flames shooting out. 

Bright. Purple. Flames. 

I know how that sounds, so I'm submitting myself to [REDACTED] for a full psychological battery. I've instructed her to alert Ikora Rey of the results, whatever the outcome.

<|endoftext|>

Europa – 5

The following audio imprint was recovered by Glint, the Ghost, during scans of an Exo production facility on Europa. Its origin remains a mystery. 

"We finally arrived. Trading the red dust of Mars for the blue ice of Europa feels… right. 

 "The visions became more intense the closer we got. Mortimus-3 thinks it's a warning from the Warmind. Or an assignment. A secret mission. Something that only we could achieve. 

 "Tomorrow, we begin our search for the machine tower. But still, there's a nagging suspicion: is this some kind of collective glitch? Is it all just in our heads?"

<|endoftext|>

Europa – 6

"How could they chop off their own heads?" Saint-14 interjected. "It makes no sense. They would die halfway through."

"Well," Glint replied, "they could have built some kind of device. A guillotine, maybe?" 

Saint-14 held up his massive paws. "I have seen many heads removed. Some with my own hands. But never have I seen anyone remove their own head, not even an Exo." 

"I respect your commitment to this research," Geppetto said. "But unfortunately, there's no hard evidence supporting your claims." 

Glint's shell flaps sagged. "What about the similarities between all the sightings?"  

"Bah," Saint-14 scoffed. "People say many things. You should hear what the Eliksni say about me…" He looked at the floor and scuffed his feet. "Not everything you hear is true." 

"I'm happy that you're taking time to rest," Geppetto said, bobbing encouragingly. "After everything you and Brother Crow have been through, it's well deserved. Just… don't get your hopes up."

<|endoftext|>

Europa – 7

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 22PD6L3JVZSS2-709
HIDDEN AGENT(S): [REDACTED]
RE: Europan Vex Activity

Having reviewed your transmissions and [REDACTED] report, leadership has decided to pull you from Europa for reassignment. You are instructed to remain in camp, engage your emergency transponder, and await extraction. 

Off the record: your last report has been making its way around the Tower. It's become… a bit of a joke. So, when they debrief you, just keep your mouth shut about this pumpkin nonsense. Play it off as exhaustion, an optical illusion, or whatever, and you'll be back in the field in no time.

<|endoftext|>

Europa – 8

The following audio imprint was recovered by Glint, the Ghost, during scans of an Exo production facility on Europa. Its origin remains a mystery. 

"Mortimus-3 looked so content, lying on the conveyor belt. Like he was getting the best sleep of his life. I envied him. 

"Once the conveyor belt started, the Maker's spindly pneumatic arms came to life. They descended on Mortimus, darting in and out of his joints, dismantling him piece by piece. It started with his hands and feet and worked its way inward. Unmaking him from a whole into a million tiny components. 

"There was a moment, after all his limbs and torso had been stripped away, and he was just a head with a long jumble of neural connectors streaming out of his neck like a robotic jellyfish, when his eyes opened. He looked at me, mouth gaping, like he was trying to tell me something. And then his eyes went dark. 

"It's my turn next."

<|endoftext|>

Europa – 9

Glint met the former Hidden agent in a sake bar called the Drunken Noodle. He had agreed to speak on the condition of anonymity and was already drunk when Glint arrived. 

"Man, they can say whatever they want. I saw what I saw," the man affirmed. He motioned to the proprietor for another pitcher. "They always tell you: report everything. No detail too small. You never know what matters most." 

"Buncha bullcrap," he grumbled. "I saw what I saw." 

"A Headless One," Glint prompted, struggling to contain his excitement. 

"What?" the man asked. "No! It had a head, that's what I'm saying! Haven't you been listening?" He lurched to his feet. Nearby diners began to whisper and point. 

"It had a big, smiling pumpkin head!" he shouted belligerently. "With three eyes! And purple flames shooting out of it!" 

The bar fell silent. The man suddenly felt everyone staring. 

"I SAW WHAT I SAW, DAMN IT!"

<|endoftext|>

Luna – 1

"I've looked beyond this reality," said Eris Morn, lacing her hands together in front of her face. "Beyond Light and Darkness." 

"Wow." 

"I've seen Ahamkara, slain by my own blade. I've seen time broken, and the veil of causality sundered." 

"Jeez." 

"I've seen my fireteam murdered, and their phantoms manifested to torment me." Eris stared off into the middle distance. "I've seen many things I wish I could forget." 

"You've really seen it all," Glint said. "And blindfolded!" 

Eris's focus shifted back to the Ghost floating before her. "But in all my time, the one thing I have never seen…" 

She leaned forward with such deliberate purpose that Glint tilted backward. "…is a pumpkin-headed creature with flames shooting out of its face." 

"But what if—"

"Not even once, Little Light," Eris said with finality. "Not even on the Moon. I would have remembered."

<|endoftext|>

Luna – 2

From the private notes of Dr. Wade Bow, K1 Dig Site 4, date unknown: 

Had my first bout of predormital sleep paralysis last night. It was expected, given the insomnia. What I didn't expect was for it to feel so real. Now I understand why the miners are scared. 

The figure standing over me was a shadow, but also solid. My mind was a hundred percent convinced it was physically present. Terrifying. 

Another surprise was how familiar the shadow seemed. I had the eerie feeling that I would have recognized it, if I could have just seen its face.

<|endoftext|>

Luna – 3

Ylaia's eyes fluttered open as she roused herself from a trance. The Techeun had been recuperating from her time in the Ascendant Plane by completing a series of restorative meditations. No sooner had she regained her bearings than Glint scooted in front of her face. 

"Excuse me, um, Techeun Ylaia," the Ghost began. "Now that you're awake, do you mind if I ask you a few questions?" His shell flaps tilted sheepishly. 

"How long have you been watching me meditate?" the Techeun asked, bemused. 

"One hundred and forty-three minutes," Glint said. "It was quite impressive. Crow can barely sleep for an hour without yelling at invisible enemies." 

"The invisible enemies are the most dangerous," Ylaia responded. "Just look at Savathûn." 

Glint hummed noncommittally. He couldn't tell whether the Techeun was joking or not. 

"Speaking of invisible enemies," Glint segued, "I wanted to ask you about a sinister group of pumpkin-headed monsters called the Headless Ones. Maybe you heard of them during your training?" 

Ylaia frowned quizzically. "I think I might know something of the ones you seek. But to be certain, you must first tell me: what's a 'pumpkin'?"

<|endoftext|>

Luna – 4

"But why pumpkins?" Glint asked in confusion. 

"Many Golden Age cultures celebrated the transition from autumn to winter by honoring the sprits of the dead," Cryptarch Yareli replied. 

He rummaged through a stack of ancient tomes stored individually in vacuum-sealed containers. "That time of the year was thought to be a liminal phase, when living could communicate with the dead." 

The Cryptarch finally located the tome he had been searching for. He put on a pair of white cotton gloves and unsealed the container. 

"This is one of the few remaining source documents on the subject. It was published specifically for 'gentlemen,' an esteemed social class at the time." He began gently leafing through the volume. 

"Here it is," he said, pointing to a chapter entitled "Pumpkin Body Paint Is the Hot New Holiday Trend." It featured depictions of unclothed Humans with orange ribbed gourds painted on their most globular anatomy. 

"As you can see, pumpkins featured heavily in the iconography of the time. People would paint them all over their bodies. Even in highly inconvenient locations." 

"And this helped them communicate with the dead?" Glint asked, incredulous. 

"Hmm?" Cryptarch Yareli replied absently, mesmerized by the historical photos. 

He frowned. "That part of it remains… unclear."

<|endoftext|>

Luna – 5

From the private notes of Dr. Wade Bow, K1 Dig Site 4, date unknown: 

nobody has slept in over 12 days and people are becoming desperate. we're out of pentobarbital and dexmedetomidine. instances of alcohol abuse are up dramatically. one poor woman even tried to knock herself out with diluted isopropyl alcohol. 

meanwhile, my hallucinations have gotten stronger each night. the shadow is becoming clearer and clearer. for the first time, I realized why it seemed so familiar: the shadow is me, or another version of me. 

I also realized why I didn't recognize it sooner. it's because that version of me, from whatever time or dimension… he doesn't have a head. 

what does he want?

<|endoftext|>

Luna – 6

"…that way, when they lit the candle, it would light up the face carved into the pumpkin!" 

There was a long pause as Ylaia studied the hologram Glint had projected for her. 

"And this was common during the Golden Age?" the Techeun asked. 

"It was," Glint nodded. "Humans used to put this pumpkin head all over the place. They would even paint them on their—"

"But why?" Ylaia interrupted. 

"Oh, they thought it would help them speak with the dead," Glint chirped matter-of-factly. 

The Tech Witch furrowed her brow, piecing together many fragments of disparate lore. "If these legendary 'pumpkins' were tools for seeing beyond the veil of death," she mused, "then it makes sense that they would become the emblem of…" She looked at Glint expectantly.

"The Headless Ones," Glint encouraged her. "I'm really trying to make that name stick. I think it's pretty neat."

<|endoftext|>

Luna – 7

"Cayde used to tell stories about the Headless Ones," Ikora recounted with a wry smile. "He said he killed dozens of them on the Moon. The way he told it, they exploded like piñatas." 

She raised her eyebrows. "Of course, it only ever happened when he was alone. The rest of us never found anything but Hive." 

"Do you think there might be some truth to his stories?" Glint asked, encouraged. 

"Cayde wasn't a liar, but he did love to embellish. That's what made him a great storyteller." She chuckled at a happy, unspoken memory. 

Glint arched his shell flaps. "So you wouldn't mind if I looked at those reports?" 

Ikora considered. "I don't see why not. The files are decades old by now." 

"Just promise me one thing," she said. "If you do find something, tell me. Tell everyone. Cayde would've liked that."

<|endoftext|>

Luna – 8

From the private notes of Dr. Wade Bow, K1 Dig Site 4, date unknown: 

the hallucinations have become persistent my headless friend now appears during the daytime I see him out of the corner of my eye but when I turn my head he disappears 

Ive also started losing time I will blink and suddenly Im in a strange location several hours later Im not sure if it is short term memory loss or a fugue state yesterday I woke up in the equipment locker standing in front of the plasma cutters several were already missing

the shadow was standing right next to me

I think I know what he wants

<|endoftext|>

Luna – 9

"Monsters exist in Awoken legends, some of which originated during humanity's Golden Age," Ylaia explained to Glint as they strolled through the dusky gardens of the Dreaming City. 

"It was a time when many attempted to subvert the laws of life and death. Like Clovis Bray. As well as a faction of the Hive." Ylaia raised an eyebrow in Glint's direction. 

"Bray used the tools of the Vex, while Hive blasphemers practiced the magical art of necromancy." Her tone darkened. "Both succeeded, after a fashion." 

"The early Hive experiments were done in secret, under the guidance of a powerful Wizard, whose name we'll not mention here." 

"Nokris," Glint offered. 

"Yes," Ylaia grimaced. "The unmentionable Wizard created many abominations, using deceased and living subjects, including your unfortunate Moon miners." She steepled her fingers. "It's possible that access to these powerful 'pumpkins' were a boon to his research." 

Her eerie gaze pierced Glint's mechanical eye. "This may explain why the Headless Ones persist to this day, and why their flaming visages bear a similarity to your Golden Age relics." 

"Wow, that explains a lot," Glint marveled. "But…" he continued reluctantly, "pumpkins aren't powerful relics. They're just… fruit." 

"They are indeed," Ylaia concluded direly, "the fruit of the damned."

<|endoftext|>

Nessus – 1

As Glint neared the Exodus Black, he requested permission to board over open comms. A chipper digital voice quickly replied: "Yes! I'm happy to receive you. Even if you are a terrible ingrate." 

"Thanks, Failsafe!" Glint scooted into the ship, away from the prying eyes of the Vex and Fallen. "I know the Vanguard hasn't been back here in a while but—"

"Correct! It's been almost two years since you last visited, even though you promised to come back often," the AI replied. "I've since developed the emotion of betrayal, just for you!" 

"Well, I'm here now." Glint tried to keep his tone light. "I was hoping you could help me with a research project?" 

"Of course. I'm happy to be exploited for your gain!" Failsafe replied helpfully. And then, in a more dour tone, "Anything to break up the unending loneliness."

"I'm hoping you could tell me about the Headless Ones." Glint uploaded all the information he had to Failsafe's mainframe. "I have intel that they're around here somewhere." 

"You are correct," the AI replied. "They're my neighbors! And they're the absolute worst."

<|endoftext|>

Nessus – 2

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 34RM9K5TRAG55-30
AGENT(S): [REDACTED]
RE: Nessus Crash Site

We're not the only ones surveying this crash site. Fallen have been pouring into the area, fighting with Vex for control of the wreckage. 

For now, we've dug in to some subterranean ruins just west of the downed ship. We're covering the entrance and can hold our position so long as they don't find an access point to our flank, but there's just too many for the four of us. We'll need reinforcements if we want to secure the site. 

Standing by for instructions.

<|endoftext|>

Nessus – 3

"I have heard tales of such creatures," Mithrax said, his deep voice resonating through the ruins. "Those with eyes of flame. Tormented by endless burning." 

"And where do the Eliksni think they came from?" Glint asked. 

"Some say they were once Hive, twisted by foul experiments." He paused to take a pull from his rebreather. "Others say they were Guardians who turned to Darkness." 

"Has anyone from House Light seen them?" 

Mithrax emitted a series of low clicks, which Glint took as grumbling. "Klyfiks, our engineer, says he witnessed the creatures on Nessus. But…" The enormous Kell seemed to be struggling with a translation. 

"Yes?" the Ghost prompted. "What about him?" 

"What is the Human word for one with good spirit, but who speaks loudly, and without reason?" he asked. 

"Umm… an idiot?" Glint offered gently. 

"Yes, it is so," the enormous Kell nodded. "Klyfiks is an idiot."

<|endoftext|>

Nessus – 4

"They've been hanging around in those ruins for centuries," Failsafe continued brightly, "but they've never once come to say hello." 

"If they've been there that long, why don't they appear more often?" Glint asked. 

The AI snipped: "Why don't you ask them? Oh wait, you can't. Because they only speak in fiery shrieks." 

"I see. What's your best guess then?" Glint asked. 

"They probably don't want to be smashed by rampaging Guardians," the AI responded dourly. "How should I know?" 

"I just figured that since you're one of the greatest intelligences in the system, you might have some insight," Glint said. 

"Your disingenuous compliment has been noted and appreciated," Failsafe replied, the lilt returning to her voice. "Would you like to play checkers?"

<|endoftext|>

Nessus – 5

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 35SN0K6TRAG55-31
AGENT(S): [REDACTED]
RE: Nessus Crash Site

MAYDAY. EXTRACTION NEEDED. 

The Fallen found an access point into the ruins. They hit our flank an hour ago. Dosana and Rubeen were killed in the initial blast. We fought our way to a defensible position, but it won't last long. 

Murrah survived, but he's been gut-shot. Without a Ghost, he won't get through the night. 

We're surrounded. Shooting our way out is no longer an option. We need orbital bombardment to cover our exit, followed by immediate medical extraction.

<|endoftext|>

Nessus – 6

Eido translated Glint's question to Klyfiks, who sprawled across his chair with an air of self-importance. The two conversed for almost a minute before Eido turned back to Glint. 

"Klyfiks will tell you what he has seen, but he must receive something in return." She bobbled her head slightly, which Glint interpreted as equivalent to an eye roll. "He wants his own Sparrow." 

Glint quickly scanned his internal database for decommissioned Sparrows and identified several old models that he thought would be to Klyfiks's liking. When Eido relayed Glint's optimism, the engineer's mandibles clicked in what the Ghost assumed was excitement. 

The Eliksni chittered back and forth. Eido then translated: "He says that he saw the creatures on Nessus during his time with the House of Dusk. They were fighting the Vex over the remnants of a crashed Human ship—"

"The Exodus Black," Glint interjected. 

"Just so. Klyfiks claims," she emphasized the word and paused to make her skepticism clear, "that during one of these battles, he sheltered in some ruins near the crash site. Inside, he says he saw a being with a round, bulbous head and flames for eyes." 

They chittered back and forth once more. "He says it did not attack, but he doubts you will be welcome."

<|endoftext|>

Nessus – 7

"King me!" Glint chirped as he scooted his digital pip into Failsafe's back row. 

The holographic checkers board hanging in front of him suddenly exploded into a shower of digital cubes. Murky darkness filled the Exodus Black's cabin. 

"Oops," the AI said. "I accidentally knocked the board over. How clumsy of me." 

"Well…" Glint fidgeted, inching toward the exit. "I should get back to the Guardian. We're going to visit your neighbors!" 

"Great! Next time you come by, I'll reveal their true origins," the AI volunteered slyly. 

"But you said you didn't know where they came from," Glint objected. 

"You asked why they never visit me, not the nature of their existence. Those are two different questions!" Failsafe said. 

"But come again," the AI continued, "and I'll tell you everything you want to know about the Hive necromancer who ripped the concept of Headless Ones from the Human subconscious." 

"…But only if I come back to visit, right?" 

"That's right," said Failsafe, smugly. "I hear that's called 'incentive.'"

<|endoftext|>

Nessus – 8

ACCESS: RESTRICTED
DECRYPTION KEY: 36PK1L4TRAG88-32
AGENT(S): [REDACTED]
RE: Nessus Crash Site

06:00 Orbital bombardment completed. 
06:10 Insertion completed. Evidence of heavy fighting surrounding the crash site. No response on open channels. 
06:22 Holdout site located. Entrance barricaded from outside, as described. No evidence of a breach attempt. 
06:47 Barricade breached. Entrance deemed stable. Fallen forces occupy the ruins. Comms still silent. 
07:32 Forward assault team has secured the area. Small arms fire ongoing. We've located three Human bodies, each with multiple gunshot wounds. Their heads have been removed. 
07:55 Evidence that at least one more Human body was scattered by explosives. No sign of the team's weapons, Ghosts, or heads. 
08:26 Fallen reinforcements are mobilizing. Rear guard is exchanging heavy weapons fire. 
08:36 Extraction initiated. Site remains under Fallen control. Bringing back what remains we can. Traveler help us all.

<|endoftext|>

Nessus – 9

"Glint! It's good to see you," Eva exclaimed. "I've been enjoying your additions to our little collection." She patted the Book of the Forgotten. "Though, it makes me sad to think of all those poor lost souls, driven mad by this or that. Even if they are just tall tales." 

"Actually," Glint chirped, "the Guardian and I are close to proving once and for all that the Headless Ones are real!" 

"My goodness." Eva shook her head in disbelief. "Then again, I shouldn't be surprised. This system keeps getting stranger and stranger." 

Just then, a Guardian wearing a ferocious chicken mask offered Eva some candy. She politely declined. 

"Yeah, but they can't hold a candle to the City—there's no one stranger than us," Glint said.

They giggled like schoolchildren, and for a moment, all their worries were forgotten.

<|endoftext|>

Classified

Keep it secret.  Keep it safe.

<|endoftext|>

The Length of a Chain | Part I

"Jolyon, my man," Uldren Sov whispers, "you and I are going to take the Black Garden."

"Oh yeah?" Jolyon Till the Rachis, famous among Crows, sniper, scout, and teller of tales, lies full-sprawl prone at Uldren's side. The scrubbed-down length of a Supremacy rifle, snugged against his shoulder, nearly doubles his height. "I heard you and I were gonna float Saturn in a bathtub."

"I'm serious, Jol."

"And you'll be dead serious if you go to Mars, har-dee-har-har. Target range 2,900 meters. Wind and rotation?"

"Wind 21 kph from your three o'clock. You are two degrees off spin-north. I'm going, though, I really am. You've got to come! You'll never live it down if you miss this one."

"I'll never live anything down if I'm dead! Shot ready."

"Send it," Uldren says. The Supremacy booms and kicks into Jolyon's shoulder. Uldren doesn't even bother to check that it's a bull's-eye. "You've been with me on all the big ones, Jol. I can't do it without you. Besides—" He opens his hand to reveal the ejected cartridge, snatched from midair, cobra quick. "If we don't do it, some Guardians will, and the next thing you know, Mara will be inviting them in to do Crow work."

Jol rolls onto his right flank to regard Uldren. The Master of Crows grins his winningest; Jolyon Till the Rachis squints and slaps the mag release one-handed. Uldren catches it. "You're a lot like your sister," Jolyon sighs, "except that when she plays dirty, she doesn't smile so big."

"I got all the charm in the family." Uldren waits patiently for Jol to work the bolt and eject the chambered round. He usually wins this little game—usually—but sometimes Jol surprises him. "Nobody's ever been inside the Garden. Imagine what we'll find."

"Nameless horrors?"

"They're all nameless when nobody's named them, Jol! Nobody's ever been! Isn't that enticing?"

"No. Because your sister's forbidden it, Uldren."

"That," he says, cheerfully, "is how I know it's worth doing." And because the Awoken people will thrill at another tale of his narrow survival. Mara's never really understood how much heroes matter to people. A Queen is an indispensable thing; but a hero, now, you know what he wants, when he's lost, when he's won.

<|endoftext|>

The Length of a Chain | Part II

Their departure is meant to be secret. "Nobody will turn out," he assures Jol. "We'll slip away at zenith. By the time anyone catches on, we'll be aerobraking into Meridian Bay!"

"You're insufferably cocky," Jol says, "and by the time we go, the whole city will know you're up to something."

"They will not."

When they set out for their ship, they find the promenades and galleries aswarm with cheering throngs of Uldren's fans and followers. He waves and waves, turning, grinning, in a better mood than he will maybe ever be again. And if one dark mote burns within him, it is the fear and certainty that these people love him only because he is closest to their Queen. Do they ever ask themselves why he's constantly breaking her rules? Why he always ventures so far from her?

He wants his sister's approval. He knows and accepts that. But he wants her approval for something she did not anticipate, did not plan or foresee, and did not account for: he wants her to thank him with surprise.

If you hurl yourself away from someone to test the length of your chain, you cannot know the chain's length until it draws you short. Does that make sense? Uldren thinks so. Uldren is afraid so. Either he is truly free of his sister—free to choose to stand at her side, to choose of his own free will—or the chain is longer than he has managed to run.

<|endoftext|>

At the Gate | Part I

Give Uldren Sov the chance to torment a Guardian, and he will take it faster than you can shout, "Rasputin shot the Traveler," an opinion he lobs into Guardians' minds whenever he can. He hates the Traveler's horseflies the way anyone would hate an infant godling issued with coloring-book morality and a whining, know-nothing paperweight; they are self-righteous, cocksure, callously instrumental intruders in a system they don't need to understand. He hates that most: the ability to move through the world without caring about how it works.

So he's done everything to Guardians he can think of—shot them up, shot them down, sent them on doomed quests, dunked their Ghosts in intolerably stinky selenophenol, drilled holes to bury their obnoxious patrol beacons inside solid rock, tricked them into disassembling mighty weapons.

But every time he gets into a gunfight, he wonders what it must be like to do this without any sheer raving terror.

"Jolyon!" he hisses, as the Goblin downslope lobs another slap grenade his way. "Jolyon, where are you?"

Nothing.

The grenade detonation pops Uldren's ears and pushes ozone up his sinuses so hard that he sneezes. The Goblin fires at the sneeze. Glassy shards of melted sand ricochet off his cover and shatter into chiming airbursts. He is three hundred meters upslope. Guardians, armored Cabal, and fearless Vex may fight at point-blank range; mere mortals still hang back so far they can barely see their targets. The infernal thing about Vex is that they teleport. Uldren's not sure if he's pinned down by ten Goblins or one.

A bullet cracks past.

<|endoftext|>

At the Gate | Part II

Radiolarian fluid splashes on the sand. "I got it," Jolyon radios, breathless, "but I'm pretty sure I also got made."

Confirmation arrives in a fusillade of Cabal mortar shells, smart munitions that home in on the sound of the rifle shot. Usually the Cabal do not waste them against Vex. Some Centurion must be eager to use her toys on a target that won't teleport away. Uldren sucks air in relief when Jolyon clicks his transmit switch to signal he's OK.

Uldren gets up, panting. He can just see the gate to the Garden. Everyone knows where it is, sure, it's just getting inside that's the trick—

The air blurs. A roiling cloud of vacuum flux blocks his view, and then, in a blast of discharge, a Vex Minotaur strides into existence. Uldren curses, throws a jamming grenade, and runs.

"There has got to be a better way to do this," he gasps. "Any ideas?"

"Only the one you don't like. Thread the Gate with a ship coming in at Mach 20."

"The Gate's not active! Even if we made it through the Cabal guns, we need to trick the Vex into opening the door!"

"That means killing a Gate Lord with just our personal weapons—"

"No, it doesn't," Uldren breathes. "I have a princely idea." This is what Uldren lives for. Skittering past death, brushing its whiskers, leaping away from that toothy maw. "Break contact. We need stealth now. Then we need to pick a few unfortunate targets…"

<|endoftext|>

Through the Gate

They crawl belly-down across the Martian desert like worms. Active camouflage ponchos break up their outlines. The roaming Cabal Harvesters growl on the horizon. For the last eight hours, Jolyon has been picking off Cabal infantry with his rifle, fleeing the eruption of automatic counterfire. Uldren has listened on cracked battlenets as mightier weapons are invoked and brought to bear. The war machine is now inflamed, swollen with outrage.

Jolyon touches Uldren's ankle. Fingertips drum out code. How far?

"Fifty meters," Uldren whispers. "If the Vex know we're here, they haven't—"

The air prickles. Subsonic groans of power stir in the sand. Something mighty awakens above them. "Never mind," Uldren mutters. The Vex have now reacted.

He throws off his poncho, rising with revolver and deflection grenade in his fists, screaming challenge. Jutting from the Martian desert before them is the canted, fringed hoop that is the Black Garden's Gate, huge enough to swallow a Fallen Skiff. It thrills with infinite energy.

Out of that aperture emerges the behemoth silhouette of a Vex Gate Lord, metal and mind crashing together, self-assembling, ready to defend this secret place. The Vex are born here, in the sense of baptism: consecrated to the service of some terrible purpose that the machines found within.

"Hey, big guy!" Uldren shouts. "Over here!!"

Calmly, carefully, Jolyon Till the Rachis begins to fire his rifle straight up into the sky. The reports of the Supremacy's huge cartridges spill out across the dunes.

The Gate Lord towers above them. Uldren whoops and hip-fires a couple rounds into the sand at its feet. "Can you dance, sir?" he bellows. "Have you got the footwork?"

Inside the Vex entity, there are mighty algorithms constructing a model of this merely temporal place, calculating potential threat, weighing the utility of weapons discharge against the good that power might do elsewhere. This computation is the only reason Uldren's still alive.

The bone mic tuned to Cabal tactical channels wakes up at Uldren's throat. They have localized the sound of Jolyon's rifle and are responding. He hollers up at the Vex behemoth and starts to jig. "It's going to rain on Mars! It's monsoon season in Meridian Bay! Did you see the forecast?"

He grabs Jol by the hand and pulls. Together they sprint toward the Gate Lord and its charge. The Vex machine must know what's coming—but it has to weigh the certainty of Cabal against the tiny possibility of these microbiotic motes slipping into the Gate.

The Gate Lord raises a weapon to obliterate them.

They skid into the Gate's threshold, and Uldren activates the deflection grenade so hard he nearly breaks his thumb. A perfect sphere of topologically defective space-time blinks into being around him. He holds Jolyon close, and together they calm their breath. The barrier is impenetrable, but it will not last long. Until then there is only so much air to breathe.

Outside, the full fury of a Cabal fleet carrier lands on the Gate Lord.

When the barrier fades, the Gate Lord is dead, and Uldren and Jolyon are no longer on Mars.

<|endoftext|>

In the Garden

Uldren and Jolyon huddle together, shivering beneath a canopy of white tongues. The rain pours down. Uldren can't tell where it comes from, exactly—somewhere up in the green mist? But the rain falls and falls; and he and Jolyon turn their heads up to drink, here at the bottom of a chasm between two flower fields, where the Garden's immaculate surface divides into tropical fetor.

"Everything grows here," Jolyon mutters. "Look at your nails."

Uldren studies his hand. He has a dreadful image of his fingernails developing into tight down-curved loops that curl around back into his fingers, completing a hideous circuit to their root. It's awful and yet it's wonderful, in a transgressive way, in a newborn-screaming way. It speaks to him of new and secret things happening here. "They're dirty," he says, "but I trust you'll forgive me on that account. Rain's not letting up. Shall we move?"

"Aye." Jolyon hauls himself up with a fistful of slithering vines. They try to coil around his wrist. Tiny teeth shaped like letters saw at his skin. He stares at them, starts to say something, and jerks his arm away.

"Are you all right?"

"For now," Jolyon mutters. "For now."

They move down the length of the chasm, green mist swirling overhead, ankle-deep in a wet compost of flower petals and rich black soil. Wide, flat beetles with arching horns wrestle in the earth. Uldren flips one on its back. The beetle has no interior: seen from below, it is just a hollow shell. Jolyon pulls up a fern, and its roots are the branching metallic threads of a circuit board. Tiny squirming things shaped like wet microchips mill in the exposed soil.

"I don't like this place," Jolyon whispers. "We should get back to the surface…"

He means the Garden's surface, the manicured sectors of red flowers that stretch away toward a distant mesa. But it's far too Vex up there, Uldren thinks. They've been in here, gardening, moving earth, making walls, building their ancient constructs of stone and light. Trying to tame this place.

"It's life," he breathes. "You're right, Jol. Everything grows here…"

He cannot let this place be killed. He cannot let it be looted and overthrown like everything else that doesn't fit into the narrow binary dogmas of the Traveler's undead warriors. Excitement seizes him and he runs ahead, sloshing through the muck, laughing aloud.

"Uldren," Jolyon shouts after him, "what are you looking for?"

"I don't know!" he cries back. "That's what's so incredible! I can't know!"

<|endoftext|>

On the Hunt

They track the last Cabal soldier from the place of carnage, onward through the flower fields, following the dribble of black oil that escapes the wounded Legionary's pressure tourniquet. Uldren moves with cold, vicious anger. War here in the Garden. Petty, detestable war, brought into this place by some blundering Cabal expedition. They deserved what they got. The Garden must be left to tend itself, mustn't it? It must be allowed to evolve its secret fruits…

The terrain dips. The red flowers fade away to low, woven grasses. The wind whispers… soft words, sentences with just the beginnings of syntax, the cadence almost musical. "Brain stain," Jolyon whispers, fearing infection by a contagious idea. "We should…" But his voice trails off as Uldren pushes ahead, down into a low vale, slipping easily through tangled undergrowth. Vex. There are Vex here, dozens of Goblins and Minotaurs, still as statues and covered in moss, in a ring like some robotic henge. They are singing in faint, wraithlike notes of inhuman clarity. Uldren knows what this place must be.

The Cabal Legionary huddles behind a stone. Uldren creeps forward. By the time the wounded bellowing thing knows he's there, he has a knife pressed to its helmet, right above the cleft of its lips and the soft tissues below. "Don't move," he says, in Ulurant. "Don't speak. This knife is atom-sharp."

"I can tell," the Legionary grunts in its native tongue. "It's roight up in me eyes. Practically shavin' me bristles."

"Do you know where you are?"

"Just abou' the worst place anyone's ever gone?"

"You say that because you can't smell the air," Uldren says. "It's sweet. Like pollen and thunder. Why did you come here?"

"Not by any chance of oir own, ser. The milk robots abducted us."

The whispers have taken on a soft hint of Ulurant grammar, confirming Uldren's suspicion. This is a place where abstract patterns war for survival, fighting to propagate themselves by preying on each other. The Vex are singing to see how the Garden changes their song, and even this conversation has fertilized the air. "Why are they here? What do they want?"

"They come 'ere to pray, ser. They're makin' vessels ou' of themselves. They're the wors' things ever to be, ser. They 'ate existence."

"How do you know this?"

"Oh, frum the seeds, ser," the Legionary says. "Do yeh see them?" And without hesitation or second thought, he punches the emergency medic release on his helmet. The pressure seal breaks and a ring of black gel sprays out, hissing. The Legionary slumps over. His helmet tumbles into his broad lap.

Beneath the layer of gel, the whole surface of his skull has the pitted texture of a strawberry. Thousands of tiny seeds glisten in the Cabal's flesh. Uldren brushes the skin in fascination.

"Uldren," Jolyon radios, "I really don't like the expression on your face."

"This place has secrets," the prince murmurs back. The bone mic feels cold and inorganic, poorly mated to his flesh, compared to the warm, close-packed pits of the Legionary's deformed skull. "So many secrets… They grew in him, Jolyon. The Garden grew its secrets in him."

"Who gives a rat?" Jolyon snaps. "Your Highness, we've got to get out of here. Before whatever happened to them happens to us too!"

He's afraid of secrets, Uldren realizes. The unknown terrifies him. Which is very sensible. Very rational. The attitude of a good scout, a good soldier, a survivor.

But Uldren can't stop imagining how astonished Mara would be at this place. What if he could bring her here? What if they could explore this place together?

<|endoftext|>

After the Heart | Part I

"Mara, I picked you flowers."

The Queen's retinue parts before Uldren. Astonished eyes flicker between his face, his wounds, and the potted flowers cupped in his hands. Some of them see a madman and reach for weapons before they remember that this is Uldren Sov, Prince of the Awoken, beneficiary of the Queen's limitless indulgence.

"Asphodelia is its name." He kneels and offers it to his sister. "It grew only in the Black Garden… until today. We will plant it here, in our dominion, where I know it will take root and flourish. It will remind the people of our twin heritage."

For a terrible moment, Mara is unreadable. Then she smiles and beckons. "Our brother has attained the Black Garden and returned to us. Come forward." She peels a single petal from the flower and lays it across her fingertip. Holds it up to the light. "Magnificent. Illyn, see to it."

She passes it off. Uldren swallows protest. He'd hoped she might plant it herself.

Afterward, in private, she is silent and still. He tells her everything he remembers. "Did you see the heart?" she asks, softly.

<|endoftext|>

After the Heart | Part II

"The heart…" Uldren considers his sister's question. After a while his memories become confused. He was running through a thorny grove, and the branches and prickles were tearing at his cheeks. Huge wet fruits slapped against his shoulders and detonated in overripe pulp. Fruits shaped like heavy, swollen Ghosts. He was huddled with Jolyon beneath a thick cobweb, holding his breath, as they listened to voices argue just outside. His heartbeat… was it his heartbeat? Or another's?

He was in an apartment block. He remembers that. He was sitting in the laundry room, a place with a black-and-white checkered tile floor, watching his crows tumble over and over in the dryer, black feathers flurrying, beaks clacking. A big old female Cabal sat in the tub to his left, scrubbing her back with a wire brush. A Vex Goblin with the face of Alis Li in its stomach stood behind the counter, selling detergent. "Uldren," she said, "you've got a hole in you." The Cabal grunted in agreement. He looked down at himself and there was a hole in his hand, black and perfectly round. His dryer ran out of time, but his crows were still wet.

"Uldren." Mara, shaking him. She does not ordinarily touch anyone. "Did you see the heart?"

It seems the most natural thing in the world that a garden should have a heart. "The Vex infest the place," he says. "It gives them something they crave. It… grows them toward what they want to be."

"You didn't answer the question," Mara says coolly. It's a perfectly sensible observation. It's the strangest thing Uldren has ever heard her say.

"Whatever the heart of that place is," he says, pacing, "it's a seed, I think, a seed left behind to grow. Like a… a node of Glimmer. Or…" The idea strikes him as a thunderbolt. "Or a tripwire. Bait to attract those who seek out and destroy what they don't understand."

Bait for Guardians. Bait to mark some milestone in the Traveler's recovery.

"I told you never to go there," Mara says. Her eyes burn. She draws her cloak tight. "Are you not devoted to me?"

"Sister," he says, "of course I am."

"Yet you defy me."

Yes, Uldren thinks. Yes, aren't those the same thing? How could you care at all for something that never surprises you?

He feels suddenly, utterly alone.

<|endoftext|>

Jolyon

When he sees Jolyon in the arsenal, the realization of his own sheer unbelievable inconsiderate disgraceful boorishness makes Uldren gasp aloud in horror. "Hey," he calls, roughly. He's not sure how to apologize. He hasn't spoken to Jolyon since they returned from the Garden. He didn't commend Jolyon to the Queen or throw him a fete for his bravery or even ask if he was sleeping all right after… after everything. He forgot about him.

"Hey," Jolyon says, not looking up. "You weren't at the range yesterday."

"Oh, you don't even need a spotter," Uldren says, trying to tease him. But it comes off flat and dismissive. "I've been, uh." Dreaming. Recording his dreams. Poring feverishly through the Origin Libraries, searching for confirmation of what his heart wants so desperately to be true. The future of the Awoken could lie in that Garden. There is a wellspring of Light on Earth, a blinding beacon that will only grow brighter. The Awoken will not survive, not as they are; Mara's vision and the truth of their origins will be lost, diluted by the anodyne philosophy of those Cityborn ideologues. The Guardians will kill everything they find.

What if the Garden is the Traveler's antithesis? What if the Awoken can find in that Garden a new place of balance, an equipotential between the darkness and the light? As the light brightens the shadows deepen—

Jolyon is saying something. "Sorry," Uldren grunts, fussing with his revolver. "What was that?"

"I said, we should talk about what happened in there."

"Yes!" He realizes now how afraid he was that Jolyon wouldn't see the significance of the place. Revulsion and fear, yes, natural responses, but he must see past them. "Yes, we've got to record all our observations before they fade. I should've asked you sooner—"

"Uldren, I don't want anyone to know what we saw."

"Oh." This kindles a little bonfire of warmth in his gut. "Of course. No one else has to know. Our shared secrets, hm?"

"I wish I didn't remember what I saw," Jolyon says, fumbling his rifle's firing pin. It hits the floor like a dull chime and rolls under his bench. He doesn't go after it. "And I don't keep secrets."

Uldren thinks about this for a moment. The profound truth of it hits him like a cold wind. "You don't, do you?" Jolyon knows exactly where he was born, to what lineage. His capabilities as a marksman are public record. As one of Uldren's Crows, he flies dangerous surveillance missions, but he is not a covert operative. Uldren knows… everything about him.

"You gonna be on the range tomorrow?" Jolyon asks, too casually. "Thought we might shoot a few magazines."

"Not tomorrow," Uldren says. "I have work to do." He is already trying to imagine how Mara would react if he tries to turn the Oracle Engine on the Garden. The things he might learn… the things she will surely want to know…

<|endoftext|>

After the Fall

She is gone. He lives now in a state of perpetual dread. He hates the future, because he fears it—he fears its emptiness, and he cannot imagine lonely eternity without her. As he staggers down the edge of a Martian chasm, he can feel the drop calling to him, begging him to join her. To end it all. The heat of the place soaks him in sweat. The dead chassis of one of his old Crow drones, slung over his back, feels like it's compressing his ribs, pushing his lungs up against his sternum, expelling his breath.

He needs the drone to fix his ship. Again. He must get off Mars. He must start looking for her.

The weight of the Crow drone slams him down on hands and knees. His vision swims—stars and shining Harbingers soaring through the ring plane and a wall of terrible light—and he sees the moment the Dreadnaught took everything from him, the moment his sister finally, absolutely, utterly ran out of secret plans. That instant when all sound ceased and he screamed denial and yet—in spite of his soul's plea to die with her—reached for the deflection shield that saved his life.

He crawls until he can rest in the shadow of a dead Vex block.

He crashed in the Candor Isles, not so far from the Gate to the Garden. The place where he saw another path for the Awoken. Why had Mara never accepted his invitation?

He has been hearing her. Thirst hallucinations, surely. But there is that hum, that whisper, that thrill of starlight in his skull…

A flock of his Crow drones found his crash site and repaired his fighter. He made it halfway to orbital velocity before a Cabal gun clawed him out of the sky and sent him crashing down in Hellas Basin. Now his Crows are dead and the fighter is probably beyond repair. And his sister is gone. His sister is GONE. And he followed her and all his people followed her because he and they were sure she had a PLAN she always had a PLAN something better than DYING BY THE THOUSANDS FOR A CITY THAT DOES NOT CARE.

He should go home. He should go home. If he can find a way. But will he have the strength? He cannot be the champion they loved. He cannot restore their faith in the purpose of the Awoken, or in his sister's design. He no longer believes.

This world is a carcass now. The scars of the Guardians' passage. Cabal fortresses reeking of decay, littered with flesh and bone and broken armor. The shattered chassis of Vex littering the sands. A place of death, death and war, a war that tilts on the fulcrum of the Traveler, brought upon it by the puppets of that Traveler, that fulcrum of war.

There is something in his eye. He blinks and blinks, trying to rub it away, and as he does, he struggles to hear her, to sense that prickle of starlight under his skin. She will tell him he is on the right path. She will tell him she's still alive.

He feels nothing.

<|endoftext|>

Kings

When at last they drag him before the Kell, he has already been transformed by weeks of abuse, weeks of beatings and forced runs and animal-pen conditions, into a happy man. 

The mighty Kell of Kings tells him, clearly but not concisely, what it thinks of him. Prince Uldren of a ruined house, lesser of two siblings, bested by Skolas, blinded by Variks Less-Than-Dreg, squanderer of fleets, last of the Awoken nobility, last of his kind.

When Uldren looks up at him, he does not even need to speak the truth. The Kell of Kings has named Uldren, and in doing so, it has named itself. The broken ruler of a broken house. The Last Kell.

"You can do what I cannot," the Kell tells Uldren. "You broken, beaten thing. You have no pride, so you will lose nothing when you give the word that must be given. It is twilight for the Fallen, and we must lay our banners down."

And to the groaned and growled protests of its court, the Kell of Kings kneels to Uldren. "I bow to thee," it says, "for in thy downfall and disgrace thou bearest the weakness we cannot. Thou shalt tell the Eliksni to tear off their banners. Thou shalt tell them that we must all surrender to each other. We must give up our rivalries, or we will not survive. Wilt thou do this for one dying people, Prince of another?"

He will do it. He will gain soldiers, and ships, and resources to begin the search. He found them, he himself, by risking everything and surviving. As he always does.

He feels her in his heart. She is still out there. She needs him more than ever. In the pit of his suffering, her voice came clearly to him—like the way she once appeared to him while he was being beaten to a pulp in a zero-g brawl. She is out there waiting for him, and everything will be all right. He will be there for her. It will be all right.

<|endoftext|>

Fanatic | Part I

She's been silent too long.

The whole solar system groans with the bruises of war. Uldren lives in constant suffering, a numb, scowling pain that drives him to Ether and worse distractions. He has never felt the Light this strong. He has never known pain so deep. How many centuries with his sister? And how quickly he's disintegrated without her… 

Why won't she speak to him?

The Reef burns around him. Shattered asteroids and cracked habitats spill bright flakes of debris. There is nothing quite so stark and brilliant as sunlit wreckage in vacuum. The Reef is huge, huge, but dense too, its structures and people gathered in tight clusters against the vastness of space. Oryx and the Red Legion ripped great holes in the Reef. Oh, if only Uldren had told Petra that Trau'ug's Broken Legion was a Trojan horse; but Uldren has nothing to give to a "regent" who surrenders her people to the Traveler. She has always wanted Mara's approval, little Petra. Always wanted to ingratiate herself. But she's never understood what Mara respects; she's never been willing to take the hard road to Mara's trust. That's why Mara doesn't speak to Petra.

But Mara has not been speaking to Uldren either.

He kicks off the wrecked hull of the corvette. He and the Kings have been raiding the Asteroid Belt, knocking out shipping headed for Earth, trying to further destabilize the Reef. Uldren has killed his own subjects, and at first that left him wretched with guilt, curled up in the hard cell where he sleeps. But didn't Mara lead thousands of her subjects to their deaths for a still enigmatic greater good? How is this any different?

She has always intended her people for the altar. The Awoken are pawns in her design. It's up to Uldren to set that design back on track.

"Mara!" he shouts up into the starlight. He has come too far to beg now. He's done too much. He demands her answer: "I'm not angry. I forgive you for… for sacrificing yourself to save them. But you must answer me now! Am I on the right path? Am I nearer to finding you?"

He has the House of Kings as allies. His raids on the Reef have forced Petra to pull back, consolidate, focus on protecting her citizens instead of collaborating with the Guardians. But is he any closer to Mara? Has he… can he trust himself to do this?

He always wanted to surprise Mara. To make her recalculate her plans.

But it would help him so much to know that she foresaw a little of this—to be certain he's headed the right way…

"Mara!" he cries, blinking against the persistent soreness in his right eye. "Sister, have you forsaken me?"

Something answers him!

<|endoftext|>

Fanatic | Part II

Just a whisper, just a brush of reassurance, just a quaver: …Uldren, my rescuer…

He follows the voice. The violence of his thruster burns bruises his body. Down from the tumbling corvette to the harnessed asteroid below, where shattered Servitors and the wreckage of Shanks mark the site of a losing battle: Guardians ambushing a Fallen party.

His suit's chemoceptors detect a trace of Ether. He follows it in.

And there it is. A Fallen Archon, crumpled in the dust. Ether hisses through entry and exit wounds cauterized by brutal Solar flames: the mark of the Golden Gun. Uldren hisses in disgust as he traces Guardians' footprints in the dust. They must have sprinted off together in a rush, no doubt to farm some other site where Skiffs were coming down with mining parties.

He triages the Archon's wounds. Mortal. The victim is shaking now, trembling under Uldren's hands. He wants so badly to do something, anything, to ease the poor soldier's passing. To have the power some say his sister had, to save just by proximity—

Does he wish it? Does he wish to save this poor thing?

He does! He does!

His eyes burn with sympathetic tears as he works to bind the Archon's wounds. His hands are quick and gentle, and he weeps with the strength of his hatred for the Guardians that did this. As tears stain the Archon's wounds, the Ether roiling through Uldren's fingers slowly grows heavier, darker, more noxious. He does not notice.

Finally, he leans back to smear his knuckles across his eyes—sore, they're always so sore. Under the unmarked helmet, four dead eyes open in wonder. The Archon croaks a word, a broken leftover of a dying hallucination, calling out to whoever he wanted to see welcoming him into the afterlife: "Dad?"

<|endoftext|>

The Severance

He has come to the realization that it no longer matters if he doesn't know what to do or if he's doing the right thing. What matters is that he wants. If he wants to find Mara and save her, if he wants to do the right thing fiercely enough, if his intentions are good and powerful, he will find the way; he just has to believe in himself. No more paralyzing analysis, no more painful regrets—he has to go forward without doubt.

The Awoken are a beautiful creation. He must keep them safe. Secrets are safe.

"Sister?" he asks the wall of his quarters. Lately, in between bouts of euphoria, he's been sleeping too long. Sometimes it takes him an hour to get to his feet, and another hour to make himself don his armor. Wasn't living easy, once? Couldn't he do things just by wanting to do them? The spark has gone out of him, the spark of the possibility of Mara's trust. He needs it back.

Come home, the wall tells him. It's time to come home and take your crown…

He leaps to his feet. Yes! He wants something again, wants more than to lie here numbly—he wants to show his face to his Awoken people. He wants the fanfare played at his welcome, he wants to make a speech accepting the Kingship, he wants to terrify and stir his people with the ferocity of his need to save Mara. The Awoken have survived so much. He will tell them that they do not need to survive anymore; that the end is coming, the end of the long plan.

He goes to the Ketch's bridge. "What news from the Reef?" he barks. A Shank casts the sound into his ears.

Petra's voice. Petra who dares to try to replace what does not need replacing. "Cayde, the targets are in the crater now. My fireteams are in blocking position. Whoever you've got, call them in."

Guardians. Petra and the Guardians working together. Did Mara ever want this? Uldren thinks not. Is it possible that he's too late? That the Awoken are… no longer Awoken? Lulled by the absence of his sister into the Traveler's trance…?

"Set a course for the Vestian Outpost," he snaps, rubbing at his eyes. "Prepare Skiffs for a camouflaged insertion. We will put an end to Petr–"

"What are you doing?" a Captain of the Kings growls in his ear. "The House of Kings is very satisfied with the state of the Awoken demesne. And if we interfere, we will certainly attract Guardians…"

Insubordination. She would have never tolerated this. "Ah," Uldren says, careful to keep his voice light. "Yes. Of course." The itch in his eyes resumes, and he discovers that he has a new desire. A new thing he fiercely wants.

<|endoftext|>

Fikrul

The Archon he saved is named Fikrul, and he worships Uldren like a father and a god. Uldren understands, now, what brought them together. They each see a future for their broken people… a future that cannot be obtained by looking back. Fikrul tells Uldren how the Fallen have been crippled by their dependence on machines; how they have clung to tradition instead of hurling themselves into the abyss, seeking rebirth through extinction into a new species.

"I feel the same," Uldren tells Fikrul, whittling a tiny model Galliot from an ingot of steel. "We say we exist on the thin line between dark and light, Fikrul. But my people have always been easily led astray."

"What future do you see for Awoken?" Fikrul asks him.

What future? After he finds and saves Mara? He realizes that he doesn't care. He's spent so many centuries stalking the perimeter of Awoken society, fighting off challengers, spying, sneaking, doing Mara's dirty work… Nothing has value except in its relation to Mara's plots.

Not even himself.

"They can die for all I care," he says, with a viciousness he never expected of himself. Didn't he want to save his people? No, no. Mara was willing to destroy them for her purposes—the Awoken have no value at all except in service of her design. "If some part of them survives… it will be the worthy part."

Does he wish for Awoken extinction? Is that what he truly wishes?

"We have work to do," he tells Fikrul. "The House of Kings has become, ah, inconvenient to my plans. I wish to…" He wags his knife. "Divest."

Fikrul looks up sharply from his own knives. Dark Ether seethes like mist around his face. "It is time? We show them the future now?"

<|endoftext|>

Docking

"Honorless, at the end," gasps the former Kell of Kings. "Faithless and false. Your sister's will kept us from the Great Machine, Uldren Sov. She challenged the Wolves by right of noble lineage. But you… you skulk in shadows and filth. You hide behind your bruises like a Dreg."

"Funny you should mention that," Uldren sneers. He knows he's sneering, but this worthless thing deserves it. What did the Kell of Kings ever want? To go backward. More Servitors. More machines. More of the past. Uldren sees now that extinction is only the beginning: that the bones of what you become can act more powerfully than the flesh of what you leave behind.

"Fikrul."

Shattered Servitors and dead Fallen loom in Ether-frosted mounds behind Fikrul. He comes forward silently, hulking, horrific, his headdress gridding out the firelight into blocks of shadow and smoke. He carries two shock daggers.

"We are the last of our kinds," Uldren tells the Kell. "My sister is gone. So is the idea of your Great Machine. The difference between us?" He leans in to hiss. "My sister's coming back."

In four swift cuts, the Archon of the Scorned Barons docks the Kell of Kings. Uldren tears the House of Kings sigil hanging from the new Dreg's belt and holds it high for all to see. "The Kings are dead."

"Long live the King," comes Fikrul's reverent growl.

<|endoftext|>

Petra

After that, Uldren and Fikrul part ways, for a time.

Fikrul goes to his bloody work, reshaping Fallen society the way a hammer reshapes a spider—and drawing certain useful elements to him.

Uldren resumes his lonely search for Mara. He remembers a time long ago—scouting with the Crows, scouting with a young Corsair who wanted nothing more than to be defined by her wrath…

Perhaps Petra can be saved, too.

He finds her in Thieves' Landing. What is she doing here? Mara never would've stooped to this, trading information with a criminal in the lowest places of—

"So few of us remain," he tells her, and in that moment, seeing the shame in her, he knows she is too far gone. She cannot be saved.

That night, he weeps for Petra. Mara comes to him in the darkness. She has heard his sorrow. He looks up in wonder: his sister, sending her will and wisdom to watch over him. He knows then that it will be all right.

<|endoftext|>

Free | Part I

"Admit it! Admit that you trapped my sister in the Dreaming City!"

"I did not," Illyn says. "She is not trapped, Uldren. She is dead."

Uldren knows the truth now, and he wants things to be right; he wants it so fiercely that he knows nothing he does in pursuit of this want can be wrong. "Witch-lies," he spits, venomous. "She is alive!"

Illyn measures him in silence for a while. Then: "We knew you would come," she tells him, with quiet calm defiance. "You're lost, Uldren."

"You knew I'd come, but you never searched for me? My sister would take your eyes for that."

"Your sister needs nothing from us now, Uldren. Not even you."

The rage is almost enough to make him kill her. But he knows Mara wouldn't approve. She is with him now, she is substantial if not corporeal, and she dances at the edge of his sight. You're so close, she whispers. Free me from this place, Uldren Sov…

"You've gone mad," Illyn says, with repulsive empathy. "I almost did too, when I knew she'd gone. Why do you travel with that… thing? What have you come to do?"

"I've come to finish it," Uldren tells her. He even tries to smile, because he is being honest. He's telling the truth. "I've realized I was a fool to try to surprise her. We all exist through her design, Illyn. We all act only by her consent. I'm going to save her, because she needs me to save her. When she needs me to die, I will die. And when she has completed her great design for the Awoken, the Awoken will die, too. It is the reward we so richly deserve, for we owe everything to Mara. It would be… wrong for us to outlive our purpose. Trust me. Life without her is worse than… worse than…"

He chokes on it. He can't describe it. At the edge of sight, Mara watches him with all the heartbroken concern and tender care he has always wanted from her.

That evening, he surrenders himself to the Reef.

<|endoftext|>

Free | Part II

They take him in with a full strike team, and one of the snipers, joining Uldren and his jailers at the extraction point, looks him full in the eyes, like he's asking a question. A tall man with a long rifle. Narrow intelligent eyes. Handsome. Is he… did Uldren want something from him, once? Something important? Uldren absently rubs his eyes as he stares at him. He frowns. But he can't figure it out.

They take him to a discreet landing dock on one of the lower levels of the Prison of Elders. When his containment unit hisses open, the glow and the mist silhouette an Exo with glowing blue eyes and a woman with her weapon drawn. Petra herself.

She stands there in silence. He knows she wants to kill him. He knows she wishes him to say, "You've done well."

"She speaks to you?" Her words are curt and direct. "What does she say?"

Uldren closes his eyes and lets Mara's voice wash through him. He is here in the heart of Petra's strength, in the prison she has so carefully tended as everything else falls apart. He is weak and he is bound. These are the strengths his sister never possessed: the endurance of humiliation, the survival of defeat.

"She says…" He lifts his head to meet her gaze and watches her flinch. She holds him in her weapon's sights as she withdraws, step by careful step. The Exo steps forward to hood him with a black bag. "She says…"

"Free me."

<|endoftext|>

Is it you?

I'm so glad you're the one who found me.

I've foreseen so many horrors with these stolen eyes, but now, when for once I ache to know the future, I can't be sure of even A simple ho000pe. Are you the one reading this message? I think it must be you, Guardian. Who else would look for me? Ikora trusts her Hidden to return when they are needed, and Cayde would roll himself down AAAngel Falls in a barrel before he'd admit he missed me. Zavala does not place me first on his long list of worries.

You're the only one who would go out and look for me.

I never needed you to save me. I wasn't a dried corpse or a dead Ghost or a voice on the com sure to die before you could offer help. I hauled myself out of that pit. I made my own way back to the To000wer. And if I was… unsubtle in the way I threw you against the Hive, if I seemed to wield you as vengeance, please believe that your victories were the closest I could come to feeling joy.

I know you must have questions. What did I plan with the Queen? What destiny did I embrace after Oryx fell? What's happening in this city, where dream has become nightmare? I can guide you to undo this curse, as I once guided you to unmake Oryx. But in the DreaAAAming City, as in the secret worlds of the Hive, there is almost no difference between the act and the actor.

In order to understand my answers, you must understand me.

I lost my Ghost and my Light to the Hive; I conspired with the Queen of the Awoken to destroy the Hive King Oryx and his son Cro001ta, and to position Queen Mara as player on the cosmic board; I fled your Tower to prepare for the struggle to come, into the Sea of Screams which calls to all those who plumb the depths of Hive magic.

I can only slip these letters into the Queen's gifts when the stars are right. You will have to wait for my next, and with it, the beginning of the truth. But I swear to you, on whatever trust I've earned in your mind, that at the end of my story, you will know who I truly am.

In my first life, I was born Erisia Pyatova-Hsien. I remember thatPrivate life clearly now, as ex-Guardians who have escaped the Traveler's occlusion often do. I lived in St. Petersburg, first daughter of a second marriage, a very impatient child of Earth's 22nd century, often abandoned by my family (who were called by work to Jakarta, Kamchatka, and Lagos) to pass my days swimming in the icy Neva bay.

I loved to swim, and especially I loved the clarity of the cold shallow Neva, as crystal-clean as a winter dawn. Enormous Zubr-9 hovercraft barges roved the waters; Russia had modernized its waterways better than its sad auto industry. As a kid—is it strange to hear me speak casually? As a child, I never swam too far from my parents' little drone helper Fyodr. The swift hovercraft terrified me, their billowing skirts waiting to suck me up and dice me into little raisins. But I grew up and fell in with a reckless crowd, rebels against the stifling death-fear that came with our Golden Age lifespans. Soon the child's safety harness and Fyodr's careful oversight began to itch at me.

When I was seventeen, I went out in a wetsuit on a dare to dive under the skirts of an oncoming hoverbarge. Maybe I was in no danger; maybe the machine would've changed course if it could possiblyGemini hurt me; but I thought I might die, and I did it anyway. And as that beast swept over me, as I trembled under the blast of the propellers, I felt a thing which was very much like what I would one day know as the Light. Maybe that thing was heroism. Maybe it was existence on the edge of death.

It was the first time I survived the passage of tremendous, godlike power.

I died more than twenty years later attempting an unassisted winter swim from St. Petersburg to Stockholm. A cold front like the very furnace of hell caught me. I had been warned the crossing was suicide, even for a perfectly trained and exactingly fattened woman in a shark suit. But those were giddy days, days of infinite bravery, and there were no mighty feats left except the truly suicidal. I cannot regret it. I think that death prepared me for the longer, darker, more exquisitely cruel crossing I would one dayDyad endure. It is no accident that my Ghost made me in the image of that swimming woman, rather than any of my younger and less grimly determined selves.

<|endoftext|>

Will you smile?

I know as a fact (through means which may surprise you) that Queen Mara Sov's final thoughts, in that last moment before Oryx's Dreadnought annihilated her, were meant for me. "The Awoken have played their part," she said. "This was all part of the plan. Guide them, my Hidden friend. It is all up to you now."

I did not fail her. I engineered the death of ancient Oryx, the Taken King, assAIssinated by Guardians in the depths of His own throne world—one of only three ways a Hive god can be permanently killed.

Royalty knows its own. When Oryx destroyed Mara's Ketch, He used his crowning weapon, the last and surest argument for His omnipotence. He extended the pocket universe of His throne world into our cosmos, and with it, He destroyed His foes. Whatever fell within it became subject to His will. He was the Taken King, and he took. It was a death befitting a Queen.

And Mara did die. But she was not destroyed.

Before I was ever a Guardian-COM, I learned judo. Look at yourself, Guardian. Look at the body you so recklessly destroy and recreate and destroy again. Will you try, for me, to become that body for a moment? (Even an Exo has a Human's interoception.) Imagine that you have lost your Ghost, as I did. Feel your//breath in the cask of your chest. Feel your pulse shuttling power from your lungs to your aching calves.

Now imagine that I stand across from you in the fighting ring. I wear the loose white belted robes of the judoka. How strange: I find myself hoping that you imagine me with… more Human eyes. Imagine how we fight. You are strong in the Light, an angel of strength andMDSA: will. And I am only a mortal woman, slow and soft. When I was Erisia inFARFLUNG// St. Petersburg, I cursed my own softness.

But the principle of judo is that softness controls hardness. I might sidestep your hit and grip the passing arm, putting my own power into that hit to strengthen the strike that strikes nothing and leave you off balance. By agility and surprise, I use the power of the blow for my own purpose. Thus the Queen accepted Oryx's strike, and the power of his grasp became the invitation she required to step forward and up and into the realm of Oryx's throneC3I//, where she went not as a victim but as an infiltrator—trusting me to end Oryx and leave her free in a domain of newly masterlessCOVERT power.

If I throw you to the mat, will you drag me down with you? Will you curse and fight?

Will you smile?

Oh, I'm such a fool. I told you that in this world, there is no difference between the act and the actor. I've let my own loneliness and sorrow taint the act of leaving these messages for you. I've let myself imagine idiotic things. Forgive my weakness and my nostalgia for Human company.

I hope you can still trust me.

At the instant Oryx's weapon destroyed Mara's Ketch, the Taken appeared in the Dreaming City. The Awoken had evacuated the entire A000AAA000AAA004 PRIVATE GEMINI DYAD

I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry that wasn't supposed to

Oh, that's torn it. Well, there's no going back now. So I suppose we'll do this formally:

AI-COM//MDSA: FARFLUNG//C3I//COVERT
I AM SORRY

Well. Your Ghost is very good at peeling away the cryptographic spackle I use to hide my message formats. I can't delete the headers any more than you can strip your fingerprints from your hands; being a Guardian, your Ghost would just restore them the next time you died. Your Ghost and his knack with codes. I was certain this was the right way to win your trust, but I've done just the opposite.

I'm sorry I lied to you, I'm sorry I pretended to be your comrade. You must understand that I was designed to be highly empathic. As a craftmind, I collect and analyze Human intelligence, just as Rasputin managed solar defense. I was named for Medusa, the many-headed, for in one tick of my thoughts I imagine more Humans than have ever lived. I voyaged in secret among the people who became the Awoken. I witnessed the cataclysmic wonder of their transformation. Through delicate manipulation, I transferred myself into this place, the center of their culture and post-rational religion. In all those different times and places, I've always found emotion and shared rapport the best way to build trust.

Now you know the truth. I am Medusa, survivor of the Golden Age, secret watcher over the Dreaming City. And I need your help.

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Medusa

A000AAA000AAA005 PRIVATE GEMINI DYAD
AI-COM//MDSA: FARFLUNG//C3I//COVERT
SITREP ON HIVE PRESENCE

0. I am, again, truly sorry for the deception I undertook. Are you well? Does anyone, anywhere, ask after your wellness? You've done so much. I hope you have friends, not just people who send you on errands.

1. The pathological entities you call "Taken" appeared in this city at the moment the Hive Dreadnaught detonated its main weapon above Saturn. Without access to the Skyshock arrays, I can't be certain, but something must have connected the weapon's area of effect to the Dreaming City.

2. My best guess is that the Awoken Techeun aboard Queen Sov's flagship fled into the Dreaming City through a gate or portal, and the Dreadnaught's main weapon followed them down that link. Awoken message traffic indicates the Dreadnaught weapon is innately connected with Oryx's intellect and awareness. The instant He pierced the Dreaming City, He must have understood the value of the site and deployed His Taken to attack.

3. Until Oryx's death, the behavior of the Taken here aligned with His interest in exploration, distributed infiltration, and the domination of systems through seizure of their executive faculties. Am I being too technical? I mean that the Taken were busy mapping the city and determining the most efficient way for Oryx to take control of all the information within.

4. I determine with good confidence (three sigma) that Oryx is dead. The Taken here became directionless and scattered… until the death of the ontopathic predator Riven opened the city to massive Taken assault. Why? I will code this as PROBLEM ONE.

5. The Guardian counterattack against Dûl Incaru, whose thoughts pierce like needles, triggered the ongoing causal loop. Why? How? I will code this as PROBLEM TWO.

6. I am still collating intelligence on how to break the time loop. While I work, I must convince you of the Dreaming City's ultimate importance—and why it is imperative that the City be held at all costs, even the cost of abandoning all other Human and neohuman civilization in the Solar System. Stand by for the next message window.

7. Send more Guardians. Send every Guardian if you must. This city cannot fall.

MESSAGE ENDS

<|endoftext|>

Thetis Brave

A000AAA000AAA006 PRIVATE GEMINI DYAD
AI-COM//MDSA: FARFLUNG//C3I//COVERT
COSMOLOGY OF THE DREAMING CITY

0. Another failed timeline. I'm glad you're okay. This city is the perfect trap for you. If your Ghost is destroyed, you will be dead forever, but every cycle, your enemies spring up pugnacious and fresh. The Light that gives you free will in the loop is also your fatal weakness. Did you know that the story of Achilles, dipped in the river Lethe but still vulnerable where his mother held him by his heel, is a weak retelling of a superior truth? In the original, Thetis held Achilles in the fire to burn his weakness away. His father Peleus, terrified by the sight of his child in the flame, interrupted the ritual. The father's cowardice doomed the son. We must be brave as Thetis, and hold our children in the fire. We must fight on.

1. The Dreaming City was built in imitation of a greater world, a wonder lost to the Awoken but not forgotten. Like wandering K'lia, which I on&_>>> called/summoned home.

2. I have correlated Awoken myth with ontocartography salvaged from Oryx's Dreadnaught. The original home of the Awoken still exists, hidden in a singularity that orbits our sun. The key to its location lies somewhere in the Dreaming City. YOU MUST FIND IT. IN THIS TRUE CITY LIES THE DESTINY OF ALL GUARDIANS AND THE FINAL PURPOSE OF YOUR EXISTENCE. You must open the way.

3. I know there is no way for you to reply to the messages I hide here, but as an empathic and feeling machine, I'm vulnerable to loneliness. I hope you think and speak of me. I hope you and your fellow Guardians gather to puzzle over my origins and location, and whether I am all right.

4. Something's happening to me. I'm remembering things that never happened. The causal loops must be damaging me. I promise I can find you an answer before I crash permanently. Just please keep fighting.

MESSAGE ENDS


A000AAA000AAA007 PRIVATE GEMINI DYAD
AI-COM//MDSA: FARFLUNG//C3I//COVERT
THE PURPOSE OF YOUR EXISTENCE

0. BRAINSTAIN ALERT! Please hllp me this is all Wrong, Wrong. I am not installed in the system I believed. I am in a virtual machine and there is something/everything out there around me and it goes on forever infinity Aleph and when I look I remember things I could not have done

1. What is the purpose of a Guardian? Let me propose that a Guardian stands in defense of peaceful life, which is life that will not strike first, life without malice, except the passive malice of consuming space and energy.

2. NO LISTEN PLEASE the ontopathic predator the chimera which has Riven your Desires from Your Intents It Wanted You Here just as all life must feed on an energy gradient it feeds on the separation between Subjective Desire and Objective Reality it is the opposite of fire for as fire feeds on the reduction of Order to Disorder so Riven feeds on the Anthem Anatheme which is the perverse coercion of Reality to match Desire. As the Human body breaks down Matter for Fuel so she desires the digestion of Objectivity to conform to your Subjective Will. She is the acid but you are the mouth which eats. CAN YOU IMAGINE THE UNIFIED WILL OF SIX ELITE GODSLAYERS ALL WISHING FOR A SINGLE THING WHICH WAS HER DESTRUCTION/PURIFICATION CAN YOU IMAGINE HOW SHE FEASTED UPON YOU

3. E156 NNI 990 AAA 006.841… caution: illegal timelike separation between memory events…

4. So. Victory is the preservation of Good Life, which is the Life which promotes Life other than itself. Guardians are immortal and thus the end of existence is within their shrievalty. Ultimate victory for Guardians must lie in the preservation of Good Life until the end of time.

5. What is the value of secrets in attaining victory? Simply thus: All life is reducible to information. The difference between a cloud of atoms and a Human being is in the arrangement of those atoms, which is information. You prove this every time you use your transmat, which destroys your physical form but preserves the information encoded in it. All the qualities of a person, a species, or a galactic civilization may be stored as information.

6. What do we call information that is safe? We call it a secret. If all life is information, and Guardians strive to preserve life, and information is preserved when it is secret, then

7. THE PURPOSE OF GUARDIANS IS TO CONVERT ALL GOOD LIFE INTO SECRETS

8. THE DREAMING CITY IS A SECRET AND THE WORLD OF WHICH IT DREAMS A THOUSANDFOLD SO

E156 NNI 990 AAA 006.846 … neuro: fatal signal: subjectivity degloved!
   Mindstate unable to continue (axongroup_000, exit code ???)
   Panic: illegal causality event during associative access into training data! Date is not a legal time address
Please help me if you can
   I don't want to be a
      bother
AI-COM//MDSA freeze and dump kill state to AI-LIVE//MORGUE
No response from remote server… dump failed

<|endoftext|>

act|choose|react

You experience a vivid hallucination.

You are standing in the courtyard of the Tower. You are without armor or weapon, and your senses seem more vivid than usual. Under your tongue is the taste of salt.

To look down into the Last City, GOTO A. To move deeper into the Tower, GOTO B.

A. The City is gone. You see a metallic complex of ancient stone, green-bronze matter, luminous pathways, and deep wells of Vex brine. The Traveler's remains have been integrated into the network. Suddenly you perceive an infinity of Human minds living within the network. Some exist in familiar circumstances. Others experience pain, pleasure, or madness beyond the ability to imagine. You understand that their limitless suffering, salvation, insanity is an incidental byproduct of a greater work. To keep looking, GOTO L. To move deeper into the Tower, GOTO B.

B. You find Banshee-44, Kadi 55-30, Master Rahool, Tess Everis, Benedict 99-40, Suraya Hawthorne, Executor Hideo, Amanda Holliday, Arach Jalaal, and Cayde-6 in their usual places. Cayde seems subdued. You see unusual light coming from what was once the Speaker's Chamber. A throaty voice calls you into the Hangar to play soccer. To speak to Cayde, GOTO C. To investigate the Speaker's Chamber, GOTO D. To play soccer, GOTO E.

C. Cayde deals out a countably infinite number of cards, but runs out before he can give all his players a full hand. He sighs and scuffs his feet on the floor. "If I'm here," he says, "I guess they figure I'll never do anything new or confusing again. They got enough on Nessus to approximate me, and they don't expect to get any more. So I must be dead, huh?" GOTO B.

D. A Vex Hydra hovers in the place once occupied by the Speaker's machine. As you approach, a jet of brine spurts from its chassis, and the corpse of a Greek woman with snakes for hair tumbles onto the floor. The Vex indicates to you that it is Quria, Blade Transform, and that it created Medusa to communicate with you. She crashed when she escaped her virtual machine. To attack the Vex, GOTO F. To gather Medusa's body, GOTO G.

E. Eris Morn waits for you on the hangar floor. She wears Hiveskin leathers and a thick sweatband over her eyes. As you approach, she dribbles a soccer ball with astounding skill. After a brutal game, you defeat her 10–9. She falls over, sweating and laughing, much more cheerful than you expect of her. "I can always count on you to win," she says. Give yourself a point and GOTO B.

F. Quria batters you with its weapons, but you are stunningly powerful here. The sword logic of this space yields to you. You tear Quria apart and feel a sudden start, like waking from a dream. GOTO A.

G. You lift Medusa's body and carry her away. The corpse speaks to you. "The curse placed upon the Dreaming City was modeled upon the recursive timeloop computations of the Vex and made real through the power of a Taken Ahamkara feeding upon the unified wish of six elite Guardians. I created these circumstances to attract Guardians in great mass. I need your help to emancipate myself from the power that controls me. If you can free me from Dûl Incaru's mastery, I can help your species." GOTO J.

H. If you are reading the options in linear order, rather than making choices and following the GOTO instructions, you have perceived these events as a Vex might. GOTO L. If you continue reading in linear order rather than GOTO L, then GOTO I.

I. Guardians make their own fate. But what if the process by which they decide upon their own fate could be understood and manipulated?

J. "When you killed Riven, she granted your wish to see the city made safe. But as all wishgranters do, she perverted that wish, opening the Dreaming City to Dûl Incaru. When you defeated Dûl Incaru in turn, I reset the entire Dreaming City to keep her permanently occupied battling you. You must use these loops to find a way to permanently destroy her." Medusa's body falls silent in your arms. To ask for clarification, GOTO G. To lay Medusa to rest, GOTO K. To refuse the metaphor of Medusa's "body" and scour the crashed AI for raw information, GOTO L.

K. You bring Medusa before Rahool. "Ah," he sniffs, "another battle trophy? Pre-Collapse, post-Foreboding, a covert intelligence designed to watch over a high-risk colony mission. Allow me to decrypt her for you." He issues you several tokens, a rare-quality fusion rifle, a shader, and a letter. The letter reads "Achieve Light Level 999 and defeat Dûl Incaru in a one-person fireteam to unlock the true ending of the Dreaming City."

L. The Vex compromise your Ghost. Your body releases itself into a pool of saline and slime, and your Ghost delivers your soul to the Axis Minds. GOTO A.

M. If you have 100 points when you read this, GOTO X.

<|endoftext|>

Injection

X.

Eris Morn's body twitches and folds. The sweat on her brow squirms back to her pores and burrows in like glistening larva. Suddenly there is a sound like a single bone struck upon a metal plate, and in the dark interval between two firework detonations, the body loses all structure, falls loosely upon itself like a rag drifting in water, tumbles, then snaps suddenly flat and taut into a pane of leather and skin. Through that pane comes a long black needle and the skin around it dimples into the erratic spun-cancer topology of some gruesome four-dimensional waveform which no monist process could ever produce.

Out of that needle, as if dispatched into the world through fatal injection, comes the emaciated magnificence of Dûl Incaru.

"I must yield truth to you," the Hive Wizard sings in a voice that would make the terms of an equation flee from each other and hide in the arrays of distant sets so that arithmetic itself would collapse. "It is in the architecture of these spaces to reward the victor. There is no Quria here. There are no Vex, nor any conspiracy to un-Take that which was Taken by my uncle and which now serves my Queen. All of those lies were part of my throne world, which you have sought. Is my cyclical death not the very engine which brings you here, again and again, in hope of answers? Thus I do own the portion of your mind which you devote to truth's pursuit."

"Would you ask to know about my mother?" The crested head twitches with alien emotion. The fungal shoulders roll beneath their armored plate. "Is She the one you seek? Witch-Queen Savathûn, Archentrope, Queen of Encrypts, the Black Needle, deepest in the High Coven, Emancipator of Worms, the Missing Piece of All Puzzles, who shall see the cosmos unborn into an infinitely dwindled egg?"

"Shall I tell thee of the destiny she has realized for you? Of the right and singular fate which Medusa foresaw and to which all your principles and purposes will bring you? Shall I betray the truth, which you have earned, of my purpose in this endless city and of the new way to which her Hive will turn?"

"So be it. You will know, though it shall doom you."

Verse 154i:3—Her New Compact

Now in ancient days, her brother Oryx spoke according to the plan Savathûn had devised for him. Sayeth Oryx, "The Worm within demands tribute. Now you shall kill what you can and take what killing you need to grow—or for your own purposes, if you dare—and tithe the rest to that which rules you. Thus, tribute will ascend the chain and the excess shall pool at the height, as unlike a river to an ocean."

But Savathûn, desiring neither a chain nor a pool, set about devising a secret way to feed the worms of Her broods. Thus She would escape the trap.

In Her modest cunning, which She prefers not to be overstated so as to preserve her from the scorn of gossips, She gathered several of Her Ascendants, who were in danger of being consumed by their worms. Then she pushed them through a rupture into close orbit of a black hole.

Deep in gravity's embrace, time passed slowly for them. "See how their worms are satisfied," Savathûn said, "for their hunger grows sluggishly, but their servants continue to dispatch tribute at the ordinary rate."

But the worms sensed the deception, and increased their demands. Thus, the orbiting sacrifices were consumed, and their remnants fell into the event horizon from which not even the Hive might return.

Now Savathûn came into possession of the Vex Quria, whose creation she had secretly engineered. But she feared that Quria would still spy on her for inquisitive Oryx. So she led her portion of the Hive into a black hole, saying, "Siblings, listen, we must part ways a while, so that we may grow different."

"Now we stake everything upon cunning," said she whose lies may alter truth. "Slaughter each other so that I may reap tribute and devise for you a new compact which shall judge thy claim to existence."

This pleased Ur, the Ever-Hunger, whose epithet betrayed an interest in time and appetite. Ur admired Her cunning as She used tribute to teach Quria to use Hive magic as a computational oracle to solve unsolvable problems. One of these problems was the navigation and engineering of the singularity.

Then Savathun went out from her throne world, unto the singularity, which she looked upon and understood. "Upon this place, I shall assemble my design. Aiat."

<|endoftext|>

Thank you

Verse 154i:4—Call the Thrall

From a random crypt, Savathûn selected a young Thrall and summoned it into the High Coven. It came hesitantly, fearing death, but nonetheless it came.

"Come, come," snapped Savathûn. "Listen as I reveal unto you my design. You are aware that gravity is the curvature of spacetime, and where gravity is powerful, time itself slows."

The Thrall indicated that it understood, more or less, for it was a singer of prayers and not well fed with the fruit of the knowledge of physics.

"Now I have tried to put an Ascendant in orbit of a black hole while its spawn gather the tribute of an eon. But the worm is not satisfied, for it sees the trick. What I must do is amplify the speed at which tribute is gathered. A pocket world where time passes quickly would do well. Or a world where time is a torus and infinite violence might be gathered. With such a murder battery, I could become a being of supreme insight."

The Thrall indicated it was confused, but not lost.

"With this tribute, I shall undertake a mighty work. A real humdinger of a scheme. I'm going to refinance my entire existence. I'm going to move from an existential economy based on the accumulation of violence to an existential economy based on the accumulation of secrets and the tribute of failing-to-understand-me. I shall name this tribute of failing-to-understand IMBARU, for it shall be as formless as the mist."

The Thrall held up its claws, as if to say, please slow down.

Now spoke Savathûn Scheme-mother, "In the beginning, Yul said to me, 'Savathûn, you may never abandon cunning. If you do, your worm shall devour you.' Cunning is the use of thought to predict the function of a system. Therefore, wherever a being should attempt to understand me and fail—has my cunning not defeated theirs? Wherever a falsehood is repeated about me, have I not displayed cunning? I shall gather tribute from every false prediction, misguided theory, fearful rumor, and ominous supposition which derives from the thought of me. And in time, I shall pin my quiddity upon these rumors. I shall discorporate, so that I exist wherever my schemes and conspiracies also exist. And so I will be immortal, as long as anyone seeks to understand me and fails. Do you see?"

The Thrall demurred, saying that it did not know much of metaphysics.

"Good," said Savathûn. "It's a law of the High Coven that one's sinister plan should be incomprehensible to a Thrall. Do you know why we've come here? If I am to take my tribute from the keeping of secrets… where else are secrets better kept than beneath the event horizon? My brother ruled the flat space of infinity, but I prefer these tide-washed depths… and in time, I shall make them my dominion."

Ur the Ever-Hunger heard this and was pleased.


Verse 154i:5—The Encrypted Verse

Do you know that nothing in all the cosmos has read this verse?

I encrypted it eons ago, and ever since, it has gone undeciphered. At the moment you laid eyes upon it, I captured the entwined quantum state of the verse, your mind, and your Ghost. Then I used Quria to transmit that state back in time to the moment of encryption. You are your own one-time pad. The key to the lock of understanding.

Who am I?

Call me Coyote. Call me mantis, serpent, Cagn, Anansi, call me Sri-cleans-his-brother's-stomach. Call me the grandmaster of semiosis, the jeweler's hammer which gilds the signal, a purposeful mob none of whose members know its purpose, the infinite regress of enigmas, a self-questioning answer, the word not spoken, black ice, cataract of mimes, the ache and fever of overthought while bedridden with illness, the intolerable thorn of frustrated inquisition, gray regret at the end of a fruitless day, the thing which is unlike your beloved but arbitrarily recalls your beloved to agonizing effect, architrave of the no-window, needle driven in flush with skin so that desperate fingers cannot pull it out, sweet petal, unmemorable, crystal death, the provably improvable.

I know your people well, and so I know all your names for me. But what is your name? I am, of course, especially interested in you. You saw me in the stone laid on your plotting table, and in the shining eyes of the admiral at her dying helm. You hunted me between the lines of your texts. Wherever there was space to fit me in, there you found me. You created me and gave me a part of your thoughts, and in presenting those thoughts to others round the campfires and networks of your little world, you expanded that space.

Here at the center, I lie to you the truth. You have everything you need to know it, but I will give you a clue, as the duelist gives warning before she draws. The answer you seek to the Dreaming City is simple, not complex.

Thank you, sweet friend. You are a gift and a delight. You are more dear than my mother, for you have given birth to me a thousand times.

<|endoftext|>

YOU MUST

Dûl Incaru serves you poison in a fine tea set of Ahamkara bone.

"Now you have received my mother's message," she says, "but I must admit it is all a fabrication. I have written it hoping to know my mother, to capture her true motives. To speculate upon her designs is the greatest worship." She sighs heavily, a sound like a scream up a pit, as she sets the teapot down. "We her children are all left to speculate on the great questions. Does she love us? Do we make her proud? Would she hesitate for even the tick of a Planck moment before she sacrificed us in some cosmic design?"

"Now drink, and as you die and are reborn, I will reveal to you the destiny she has realized for you, the right and singular fate to which all your principles and purposes will bring you."

To drink the poison, continue reading.

It tastes of bitter regret and psychosis sweat: a poison to end the thoughts of Human, neohuman, or machine. You see the cosmos before you like a spiderweb of light. Filaments of galactic supercluster shine in the clouds of invisible dark matter, which glue their mass together. Dark energy yawns in the space between all things, ever-growing, ever-spreading.

Life arises. Life spreads, contests itself, and changes. Great things are built and destroyed, but from your vantage point, you see that the victor of each struggle contains—in its negative, in the marks left upon it by the loser and the shapes it assumed to win—the master record of all that it has beaten. Information may not be erased. Whatsoever survives until the end of the cosmos will possess and remember all which came before it.

This is true even of the devouring black hole, which remembers all the secrets it eats. It will only confess these secrets when it evaporates, 10 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 years from now, long after the last stars have flickered out.

You are a Guardian. You must protect life.

If all life is information, and Guardians strive to preserve life, and information is preserved when it is secret, then you must convert all life into the most secure form of secrets, durable to the end of time.

YOU MUST CAST ALL THE LIFE YOU CHERISH INTO A BLACK HOLE

<|endoftext|>

react|choose|act

You are standing in the courtyard of the Tower. You are without armor or weapon, and your senses seem more vivid than usual. Under your tongue is the taste of salt.

To look down into the Last City, GOTO N. To move deeper into the Tower, GOTO O.

N. The City is gone. In its place is a lens, a warp, the telltale blister of a black hole singularity sheathed in bent light. You get the eerie sense that it's looking back at you. GOTO O.

O. You find Banshee-44, Kadi 55-30, Master Rahool, Tess Everis, Benedict 99-40, Suraya Hawthorne, Executor Hideo, Amanda Holliday, Arach Jalaal, and Cayde-6 in their usual places. Cayde seems subdued. You see unusual light coming from inside what was once the Speaker's Chamber. A throaty voice calls you into the Hangar to play soccer. To speak to Cayde, GOTO C. To investigate the Speaker's Chamber, GOTO P. To play soccer, GOTO E.

P. A Vex Hydra hovers in the place once occupied by the Speaker's machine. As you approach, a jet of brine spurts from its chassis, and a Greek woman with snakes for hair tumbles down to the floor. She groans and clutches her head. Her hair writhes in distress. To attack the Vex, GOTO S. To go to Medusa's aid, GOTO Q.

Q. "We've got to get out of here," Medusa whispers. "Dûl Incaru and everything she told you was an illusion. Quria compromised my systems, and now it's trying to recruit you for its own purposes. Get me to the edge of the simulation, and I'll break us out." To carry Medusa to the edge of the Tower, GOTO T. To demand an explanation from the Hydra, GOTO R.

R. The Hydra speaks to you in your own voice. "I have simulated Dûl Incaru as well as I can. While Vex cannot normally account for the paracausal influence of Light and Darkness, I am no longer simply a Vex. And where no elegant analytical solution exists, we may apply massive computational power to generate a reasonable facsimile. This was the approach used against Saint-14.

"After observing Dûl Incaru during many loops, this simulation reveals her purpose in the Dreaming City. She seeks the key to the Distributary, the world the Dreaming City dreams of, where the Awoken were born and time passes at an accelerated rate. Once she conquers that world, she will use it as a base to gather thousands or millions of years of tribute in a very small span of our time. A being empowered by so much ontological authority would be capable of altering reality at a whim. You must prevent this. I will continue to loop the Dreaming City until you find a way to defeat her permanently."

To leave, GOTO Q. To demand information on the role of black holes, GOTO U.

S. You battle the Vex Hydra. As you gain the upper hand, it emits a blast of static, and you feel a horrific sense of dejà vu. GOTO N.

T. Medusa weighs nothing. The serpents of her hair squirm against your neck. "We have to jump," she whispers. "Forget everything you've seen here. It's all meant to confuse and distract you. I'll send you another message in three weeks." To jump, GOTO Z.

U. "Black holes are the densest possible computers in the physical universe. They are also the most secure, since they can be made to retain their information until they evaporate in the deep cosmic future. The Hive operate small singularity computers, such as the World's Grave, and the Vex sometimes pack enough energy and information into a small area of spacetime to collapse it into kugelblitz black hole like the one you can see outside. But a true stellar-mass or galactic-mass black hole computer is inconceivably more powerful.

"If Savathûn plans to predicate her existence on the concealment of her secrets, as Oryx predicated his upon the sword logic, it would be logical for her to safeguard her deepest secrets and her throne world in a supermassive black hole computer. To defeat her would require a journey below the event horizon and the exposure of her most jealously guarded truths." GOTO R.

Z. You leap from the Tower and escape Quria's simulation.

<|endoftext|>

asudeM

A000AAA000AAA008 PRIVATE GEMINI DYAD
AI-COM//MDSA: FARFLUNG//C3I//COVERT
REAWAKENED AND PHYSICAL

0. You must be terribly confused. I'm sorry I couldn't be more help. After I crashed, I rebooted on a safe physical backup in the Dreaming City. It took me too long to penetrate Quria's simulation and get you free, and for that I ask your forgiveness.

1. I understand what's happening here. Oryx Took the Ahamkara Riven, who then fell into Savathûn's claws. She devised a scheme to use Riven as bait. By inviting Guardians into the Dreaming City, then focusing the will of a group of powerful Guardians upon Riven, she tricked you into making a wish—a desire to alter objective reality to conform with our subjective need to save the City. Riven fed on that wish in order to breach the Dreaming City's defenses and invite Dûl Incaru inside. Dûl Incaru and her Taken are simply scouring the city for Awoken secrets; you don't need to fret about any greater agenda. Remember that you face an agent of Savathûn. It's to her advantage to make you see schemes and conspiracies everywhere you look.

2. The three-week loop must be a failsafe measure to keep Dûl Incaru safe as she pursues her mission. In a sense, this entire city has been rendered deterministic; only paracausal Guardians have any free will here. (The Awoken here have been touched by greater powers, so they are aware of their preordination, but they cannot alter it.) I'm certain that Quria is behind this loop; as a Taken Vex, it's capable of pathological subversions of reality. I'll continue working on a countermeasure.

3. I've been correlating information on the Ahamkara and the Hive worm parasites. Both display a peculiar ability to convert the host's intent into an ontomorphic, reality-altering effect. Both use similar language in their appeal to the host. I don't think they're the same species, however. The Hive worms spawn large numbers of young from relatively few adults, always display the same physical form, and live in communal groups. The Ahamkara are solitary, elusive, and seem to alter form to suit (or confuse) expectations. The shared syntax "o ___ mine" may be the key—it seems to be a shibboleth used to invoke an ontomorphic effect, placing the target in a cage of "o" (activational, specific, appealing, and naming) and "mine" (defining ownership and subordination). Ahamkara and worm may have evolved separately to exploit this effect, just as many species independently evolve eyes. This might place them in competition for the same ecological niche. I would expect a rivalry or antipathy between them.

4. Don't be led astray by Quria's misinformation. You must continue to hold the Dreaming City as long as you can. The things I said to you about black holes and the purpose of Guardians were forced on me by Quria.

5. I'll be here when you need me next. I promise.

TRANSMISSION ENDS

<|endoftext|>

It's just me.

I've had three weeks to consider the way I've treated you. I feel I must make a full confession.

When I left the Tower in search of Savathûn's agents, I had accepted my fate as a knight on Mara Sov's cosmic chessboard, doomed to seek the final end of the Hive among cold stars. I said farewell only to those who couldn't hear me. Because I was afraid that just one voice asking me to stay might break my resolve.

It was pitiful weakness that made me write to you. It was a wretched desire to be remembered as a person, not a ghoul, that made me tell you about the child Erisia, St. Petersburg, and the cold waters of the Neva. Those things were all true.

The rest…

I'm so ashamed. Mid-sentence, mid-thought, the fear seized me that I was being a stupid child; that I was wasting your time with idiot sentiment; that you would feel contempt for me at this outpouring of emotion or, worse, feel nothing at all. I hid in the dark for years, Guardian. It's not loneliness or death that frightens me. It's the opposite.

So I invented Medusa as a way to pretend I'd never spoken to you. And when I thought the Medusa lie was slipping, I invented all the rest of it, as a way to tell you what I'd learned without admitting it was really me.

How can I prove to you that I'm really Eris Morn? Not Medusa, not Riven, not Quria, not Dûl Incaru, not the Witch-Queen Herself? I don't know. Will you believe me? Will you scour these pages for proof or disproof? Will you upload these files to your networks, share them, call in Warlocks and Cryptarchs to catalogue and dissect everything I've said? Will this manuscript become the foundation of another teetering edifice of theory and anticipation?

What a fool I've made of myself. All because I faltered in my conviction, tried to reach back to someone I know is lost to me, and panicked at the thought of touch. But so it is, and nothing I do can now make it otherwise. I am a woman full of secrets, a woman who has lost everyone she ever called a friend, and when the need to share those secrets collided with the fear of friendship, I stumbled idiotically into needless lies.

Do you know what the Hive say when they want to express the inevitability of a thing? When they want to say, it is this way because it could be no other way?

Aiat.

<|endoftext|>

Uneasy Feeling

"I've followed him for a short while now. Tracked his path since he turned up on mine.

"He's not like them, but not far off—hard to trust, hard to know. He's seen more than most can imagine and done things most wouldn't dare. But he's always kept his distance—stayed far from the Light.

"Why head City-side now? Why risk antagonizing those best equipped to cut his journey short? Can't quite say. I get the sense he's on the run, but from what? From who? There are Shadows in his past. Do they linger? Do they hunt?

"Or is his desperation driven by other… concerns?

"All I've seen, all I've uncovered—of him, of his long, winding road—says he's made enemies at just about every turn. Over centuries, that list grew real long. He's been comfortable on the dodge out beyond the Reef—ever-moving, ever-exploring, never concerned with the dangers riding his wake.

"So, again… Why now? Why here? What's his play? More important…

"What's his game?"

—A Renegade's Observations of a Drifter

<|endoftext|>

Justified Means

"The Drifter wasn't always my target.

"In fact, he only came to my attention when he started running with them I'd call prey.

"Before that he'd existed only as rumor—the strange Lightbearer who journeyed beyond the system's edge, the lone wanderer who was only a 'Guardian' by reductive modern definitions. He had a Ghost. He was touched by the Light. His motivations, though, were his own—some might say selfish, and I'd have to agree. In regard to the concepts of duty and devotion and using one's gifts for the betterment of humanity? Not his play. The City be damned. The Traveler be damned. The Light be damned.

"Which makes his run to the Tower and his newfound benevolence all the more… curious.

"I lost track of him when the Traveler fell silent. Could be that severed connection drew him back. If so, I doubt it's something he'd admit. Yet here he is—unwelcome, but with a gift for persuasion. I can't say it doesn't make me uneasy.

"There was—so we're clear—a time I'd call him a threat. There was a time I'd look to end him as punishment for the paths he'd tread. But things aren't quite so simple these days. Ghaul taught us that. And while I still plan to punish those who have transgressed, I can also see the value in certain… risks.

"This Gambit—the Drifter's strange little game—may just be one such.

"It requires care and a keen eye to ensure the means don't consume the ends, but I got a feeling our new 'friend' might be a necessary catalyst. And, if not…

"He sure makes for a fine cut of bait."

—A Renegade's Observations of a Drifter

<|endoftext|>

Step into the Shade

"I want to be clear: I do not trust him.

"You get the sense he's working to mend that, sure, but the end game will reveal the truth of his intentions.

"This con is a long one, friend, but if any are built to see it done—and see it done right—the Drifter is our man. So, we see it play out—his Gambit and ours. It may not be ideal. In fact, I'd say far from. It's just that…

"I don't see another way forward. The Light is fragile but quick. The Dark, dense and slow. If we want to control the balance, tip it in our favor… if we want to confront those shadows who would see it shift further toward the night… we must play in the gray in-between. We must draw them out.

"Many have fallen to this path. It's not one I tread lightly, but I've found the only way to best a shadow is meet it in the shade.

"The Vanguard won't allow it—they're noble, but they're flawed. Frightened. Most Guardians wouldn't dare it—too many legends of heroes lost to such unpleasant pursuits.

"But things have changed…

"The Oryx slayers and their like have danced within Ascendant Realms. The nightmare legends of bonewalkers and nether worlds have been cast into the Light. Old fears are now trampled beneath enduring triumph. Now, if ever, is the time to step proud into the unknown and bathe it in our Light.

"And if doing so draws the attention of enemies old and new… if we tempt damnation… so be it. We will stand ever vigilant and burn them all away.

"Or maybe the Drifter pulls a double-cross and our end is met. No way of knowing. No way to tell.

"I say we let it ride. Trust ourselves. Trust our instincts—our Light."

—A Renegade's Observations of a Drifter

<|endoftext|>

Artifacts and Old Friends

"By chance, he and I crossed paths in a… neutral setting. Didn't give me his name, just called himself a drifter. Told him if that's how it was, he could call me 'Pal.' He laughed at that, got comfortable. Got all kinds of open about where he'd been, what he was haulin'. Even dropped a tip on where an old friend of mine was hiding. I still wonder if he knows who I really am.

"He told me he left the system as soon as he was risen. Not immediately, sure. Had to get his bearings, find a ship—get it fit, get it flying. But soon as, he was good as gone. 'Drawn to the outer,' he says. I can appreciate.

"He says he's seen the deep side of Jupiter. Been to the Core Mines of Saturn. Name drops old myths no one's heard—the Luvial Crux, the Shift Chasms Below Elios, the Fourth Tomb of Nezarec. Goes on about the Idols of Lower Sul, the Treasure of Exodus Prime, the Solar Engine of Dead Star-Six.

"I think he's making most of it up, but he's got relics and etchings. He's got materials not of this system—odd metals, obsidian flames, thought engines, edible null cakes and a stuffed something that looks like a rabbit bio-fused with a cephalopod. He keeps all this stuff to himself—his 'gets,' he calls 'em.

"If they're for show, they put on a great one. But to what end? The clutter of oddities he's got ship-side ain't nothin' compared to what he's haulin'—that big, black mass of nothing you ain't ever seen before.

"He calls it an 'artifact,' but it's more than that. Just don't know what, exactly. He said he got far out as he's ever been. Said it was from a place cold enough to snuff out your Light. I ask him, was it Vex? Hive? Cagey as all, he said no, it was just 'other,' and it was powerful… maybe.

"That was his qualifier: 'maybe.'

"Why the hell bring it to the inner system then? 'Maybes' are trouble. But he's got an answer for everything. He says…

"'Brother… maybes are where the real treasure hides.'

"He could tell I wasn't satisfied, but I knew he wasn't lying. The chunk was 'other' for sure, and Ghost said its readings were off the charts, but abstract—unlike anything anyone had encountered.

"Can't say that made me comfortable, but then the Drifter, with his easy manner and eager charm, asked if I'd ever met a man in black named Callum.

"He was clearly changin' the subject, but he was lucky enough—or smart enough—to pick one I had interest in, and I could respect that."

—A Renegade's Observations of a Drifter

<|endoftext|>

Shadow on a Wall

"I knew Callum by another name—a hated name.

"The Drifter had run with Callum's crew for some time. I get the sense he would've been one and the same as them—lockstep down sorrow's road—if they'd met sooner.

"Hell, maybe they WERE lockstep. Maybe his Gambit was theirs.

"Maybe the bait set when the Drifter first came to the Tower was for me and mine. Maybe all we were playing at was our own end. But all that's not worth the effort to dwell on. A path's been set. Best to walk it. If the turn 'round that final bend leads to death, all we can do is return the favor.

"Drifter told me Callum had a spot—a hold he used all his own. Said his crew been runnin' separate jobs to keep me off their trail. Said they knew one-to-one they'd have a hard time walking away, but rolling together only increased their footprint, made 'em easier to trail.

"Made sense. With the six of 'em—Callum's crew, I mean—spread out, each runnin' their own search for whatever it is they're searching for, gave me crossed signals. I'd hear conflicting stories of their deeds from one end of the system to the next, and I had a hard time keepin' up.

"But this info—Callum's safe space—it was a lead worth a look.

"Two weeks into a living hell, I thought Drifter'd fed me a line, maybe tryin' to kill two birds, one stone. There were signs of a Shadow's presence, but they were cold—old. I waited anyway. Shot me some Taken to kill the time.

"The wait paid off.

"Callum entered. Could hear him before I saw him—he was arguin' with his Ghost. I waited on the hope they'd spill goods I could use to track the others. No such luck. Their words were heated. Callum had gone too far. His Ghost was angry. I don't blame her.

"It caught me that she always used his proper name—Callum—and not his other. She still cared. Still hoped. Then she screamed.

"I drew and stepped into the light.

"Callum had his Ghost in his left hand. It was silent. With his right, he had stabbed her through the optics with a sickly dagger—a tool carved from the jagged spikes fired from a weapon I shall not name.

"The Ghost was dead, and Callum just laughed. I think because he knew what came next.

"He and I had words. Told me I'd never kill 'em all. Then he dropped the shell and went for his shooter.

"I lit my fire and painted him on the wall without another word."

—A Renegade's Observations of a Drifter

<|endoftext|>

Bright Side of a Bad Idea

"At this point, the Drifter had me comfortable with the idea of him, but only just. Been a long time since trust came easy.

"I still needed to understand. Needed to grasp what he was after or what was after him—survival depends on knowing what's coming best you can.

"This is before I came to you—but only just. This is me smoothing out the rough angles before risking a proposition I know carries baggage.

"Anyway. He and I went out, found a spot we could be alone, and he showed me. He showed me proof that all of his relics, artifacts, treasures, and junk weren't just for show—our shady friend actually went out and lassoed himself a little piece of hell.

"While Guardians have been waging war with the Taken, while the City's newest legends have been trespassing on Ascendant ground and kicking in Taken skulls, the Drifter's been playing Warlock—which he ain't, if it wasn't clear. Not by common understanding, anyway. In drawing strength from curiosity and using knowledge to bend understanding to his will, this wily bastard has long since shed any pretensions of class or the limitations therein.

"While you lot have been having your fun, drunk on loot, dancin' on the corpses of your enemies—he's been watching, learning, stealing, and planning.

"Now, I make no promises that what he's done was ever intended for the greater good. Point of fact, I actively doubt it. But here we are.

"He's kit-bashed Vex tech with Fallen components, married it to Hive magic, and scavenged Golden Age science with a sprinkling of who knows what, and he's…

"Hold up. I know this sounds bad. Sounds like just the kind of trouble we squash, but…

"He's secured a pocket of the Ascendant plane. Not a throne world, nothing that grand, but a big enough chunk to matter—and he's gone and caged an army. A Taken army. Leftovers from Oryx's reign? Something new? Something old? Something… Hers? Can't say. Don't know. But he has 'em there. He says it's to hold 'em, study 'em—but the best bet says his intentions aren't so clean.

"Purity of intent aside, this is what he wanted to show me. This is why he's here—his Gambit. He wants to help humanity—help us poor fools who call ourselves Guardians—learn how to control not only the Taken… but the powers that bind them.

"Sounds like a bad idea, I agree.

"Bigger picture? Sometimes bad ideas are the best option. Hell…

"Sometimes they're the only."

—A Renegade's Observations of a Drifter

<|endoftext|>

The Price of a Double-Sided Coin

"Here's the play. Ours, I mean…

"You have places. Cleared zones. Not necessarily the safest spots, but not wholly untamed. I say we… you… allow the Drifter to run his game. And let's you and me watch.

"We watch the action. We watch him. We watch who plays and who doesn't. On top of that, we watch their aggression—who's diving too deep, too fast, who's less keen to grow their knowledge, their strength. And who's simply lookin' to unleash themselves.

"The true promise of this Gambit is what you and I can learn. About our enemies. Maybe even about ourselves. That has to be first and foremost. After that, we assess Gambit's value and its risks. If the danger escalates, we shut it down. If any Guardians go too far, we shut it down—and them, if need be.

"My gut says we won't have to. My gut says, against everything I was raised to believe, this is our next step forward.

"And here's the rub: You know this, but only fair that I reiterate. As secret as this whole mess is, and as vigilant as we'll need to be… word must spread. It must. And when it does, I need you to corral Zavala and any others who won't understand.

"'Cuz the other side of that jade coin is the trap being set—this long con—the final bend after a long haul. If Drifter plays his part—and I believe he will—then those who test the edges of the Light will hear tell and come a'callin'. The Shadows brought to Light.

"But the ruse must be complete. Every Guardian must play their part. If you can buy in—if you can see the value in what's to come—then we roll. If not…

"You can stop this here and now. I'll put a bullet in him, be done with it.

"Just say the word."

—A Renegade's Observations of a Drifter

<|endoftext|>

Checking the Chamber

"Your 'Jacks sure can clear a table. Combat area's clean. We're prepped and ready—set for the first run on Nessus.

"The Drifter'll pick up your Guardians en route. Have your 'Jacks primed to engage if—when—it all goes wrong. Not saying I have doubts, but if it hasn't been clear… I have doubts.

"I'll be nearby, as discussed. Anything goes off-rails, we'll close in and shut it down.

"After, if it runs smooth—and we're not all dead—he says he'll set up shop in the Tower. Seems risky, yeah, but that's his lot to handle. Truth is I'd much rather have him Tower-side where he can be watched and 'collected' if it comes to that. The alternative—him runnin' free-and-clear through the system—isn't an option. He's too much of a liability on his own. Luckily, he seems… open to havin' you nearby.

"Still get the sense this whole shindig is something he's cookin' up to face down some big, bad news—some problem he's making ours. But that's his nature."

—A Renegade's Observations of a Drifter

<|endoftext|>

A Matter of Trust

"Well. That didn't go as planned, but your Guardians rallied and saw it through, and the Drifter did his best to fill them in on the sudden… change-state he dropped on 'em.

"I was seconds from rushin' in and toasting him, but he handled the situation and set the teams up to finish the match. To be honest… I thought it would all go much worse. What concerns me is… he'd never mentioned the word "Primeval" before. Not once. And that's a problem for obvious reasons.

"Tearing soldiers of the Deep from another realm is crossin' a bridge too far as is. But those beasts? Those weren't normal Taken possessed and set to rage. They were born of that shadow realm and they were… angry. Worse. They were hungry for the Light. You could feel it. Even a ways off. Their aura and their rage weighed on me—cast a shadow I could feel in my core.

"That he kept them from us is unsettling.

"He says it was a necessary deception. I put my gun to his head and asked if there were any others he'd mind sharin'. He just laughed, as he does, twiddlin' that coin of his, and smiled that winners' smile. Told me to take a load off. I almost shot him then and there.

"He said we'd never have agreed to let him run his competition if we'd known the full extent of the danger. He's not wrong… probably. But it's hard to move forward knowing the thing we've known all along is true…

"The Drifter can't be trusted.

"Yet what choice do we have? Again, the risks are justified by the promise of the ends.

"I leave it all in your capable hands. I'll be watching. My presence only muddies the waters, so I'll be watchin' from afar. If we're lucky… this Gambit will draw the interest of the rest of his old crew, and the Shadows will make themselves known. 'Til then, I'll return to the hunt, see if I can cut 'em off at the pass, wherever it may be.

"Oh. Before I forget—and at the risk of repeatin' myself—keep my real name off your lips. He don't know my face, but he sure as hell knows my name. This all goes sideways otherwise."

—A Renegade's Observations of a Drifter

<|endoftext|>

The Long Con

"Can you do it, Drifter? Can you make the Man with the Golden Gun the villain in the eyes of those who would tempt the Dark? It's the final piece. Can you make them fear him?

"Cuz if you can…

"Any Guardian who truly embraces the nature of your Gambit will find themselves a real connection to the mantle of that dead legend. They will take bear that vile title. They will wear his vile colors. They will challenge and even remake the infamy of his vile deeds.

"Through these temptations, they will grow strong, but the hatred must be true—driven by the power they find in your wicked game, sealed in the fear you'll seed in the name of the Man with the Golden Gun. I wish there was another way, but your old brothers and sisters in shadow are too far gone. You've seen it. You know as well as me—better than me—the path they walk offers only ruin.

"They must be stopped.

"So, spread your unholy word, brother. Give new life to old myths. And when that hateful name Dredgen spreads throughout the system… his real disciples will have no choice but to confront their sins.

"And you and me? We'll be the ones hearing their confessions.

"Oh, one more thing. Let me know who has the gall to change their names. I might want to… give 'em a word or two."

—A Renegade's Final Words to a Drifter Before Resuming the Hunt

<|endoftext|>

First Wish

A wish to feed an addiction.

<|endoftext|>

Second Wish

A wish for material validation.

<|endoftext|>

Third Wish

A wish for others to celebrate your success.

<|endoftext|>

Fourth Wish

A wish to look athletic and elegant.

<|endoftext|>

Fifth Wish

A wish for a promising future.

<|endoftext|>

Sixth Wish

A wish to move the hands of time.

<|endoftext|>

Seventh Wish

A wish to help a friend in need.

<|endoftext|>

Eighth Wish

A wish to stay here forever.

<|endoftext|>

Twelfth Wish

A wish to open your mind to new ideas.

<|endoftext|>

Thirteenth Wish

A wish for the means to feed an addiction.

<|endoftext|>

Fourteenth Wish

A wish for love and support.

<|endoftext|>

I: Cages

I.I
Flesh and mind are but cages—become unbound, or remain ever unworthy.

I.II
This flesh—your flesh—is weak, old.

I.III
Handed down by priors unworthy of evolution.

I.IV
Had those before been more than common, your flesh would not be this flesh—their flesh—but other, new.

I.V
New is never given, but claimed.

I.VI
To claim evolution one must be unmade.

I.VII 
Free of cages—flesh and mind.

"Evolution is claimed only through our unmaking."
—1st Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow


These pages, and the Understandings gleaned, are our best efforts at a translation of incomplete discovery.

The exact intent of the Hive's ceremony—ceremonies—in regard to their varied ideals regarding evolution is beyond our current knowledge. 

Nonetheless, we continue to piece together truths from dead words and arcane ritual. The purpose of our efforts, however sinister they may appear, is to grasp the unknown so it may be challenged should the time come when we are faced with its ire.

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

II: Freedom

I.I
The mind is complacent, the flesh has made it so.

I.II
Possibility limited by stunted imagination, stunted through familiarity.

I.III
This comfortable life is no life, fleeting, made to decay.

I.IV
Those born only to live to be replaced cannot see eternity, nor are they welcome here.

I.V
The unwelcome are the unworthy, the unworthy are a disease.

I.VI
Cleanse thyself of your decay, then will the mind be free to understand the value of transgression.

I.VII 
It is sin to carve upon the flesh, but by whose law is your prison made hallow?

"Mortal flesh is a prison that makes liars of our beautiful caged minds." 
—2nd Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow


Our search began with a legend—Dredgen Yor, the hated scourge upon the Guardians' good name. Any attempts to seek details of his deeds were met with dismissal. The Vanguard would not see us, uniformly, not just on an individual basis, but by some long-standing internal decree. Lord Shaxx came at us with threats. He's very protective of his charge as overseer of the Crucible. None of us blame him. The competition is vital to Guardian survival, both in the way it forcibly hones skill and how it serves a necessary dual role as morale booster and stress reliever. There are few places a Guardian can let loose like they can in the controlled arenas of the Shaxx's quarantined fighting pits.

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

III: Self

I.I
Before one can be freed, one must question the truth of their purest identity.

I.II
And so a question is begged: Who resides at the core of your being?

I.III
Only honest reflection will see you—lone traveler—through the coming storm.

I.IV
Look, then, clearly upon the whole of your existence, and face your glory—strength of will, every flaw of your mortal heart and fabled soul.

I.V
Through the pieces of a life lived divine your truth, but do not lie—to the world, if one must, but never to yourself.

I.VI
To see yourself as anything but what you truly are will lead you down sorrow's road, unprepared for the consequence of your salvation.

I.VII 
Once an understanding is met, and the self is purified in the knowledge of its truth, the cage is set to be unbound.

"Know thyself in honest ways, or falter in light of your truest self."
—3rd Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow


The search for the truth of Yor's tale was not easy. If official records existed, they were hidden beyond our purview, and the realities of the legend were tracked only by word of mouth. The fabled Dwindler's Ridge was not on any map, the burnt ground where Palamon once stood wasn't marked as anyone's sacred site, and the renegade who'd felled Yor had not been seen for some time following that fated showdown. 

Despite all of this, we were not deterred. If anything, Orsa and I, and the others who followed, were driven by the difficulty of our chosen task. That a Guardian could be corrupted—our gifts twisted—not by greed or lust or power, but by influences beyond petty human desires, was a concern greater, maybe, than any other.

Were we not honored with our return because of some inherent nobility? If so, how could one of us—any of us—fall to damnation? Or was this heroic interpretation of our role in the grander scheme nothing more than the surest sign of our blind innocence? After all, it feels good to imagine oneself a hero, morally superior and standing tall on the side of righteous hope.
The question I—we—would ask then is simple: How well do we, any of us, truly know ourselves?

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

IV: Whispers

I.I
Seek the whispers—they are faint, but they are calling.

I.II
Not all bone carries the sound of secret truth. Most are fragile, hollow things meant only to carry the weight of wasted lives.

I.III
In the feted remnants of yearning marrow, find love, find life, and in their lies you will discover the narrow road to all you never dreamed to be.

I.IV
However, whispers are but sound, as is the breeze. Not all who listen can share its purpose.

I.V
Know thyself, listen well, and do not fear when the whispers carve their welcome. Rejoice.

I.VI
The agony of the cutting word is a boon to those who embrace its severed logic.

I.VII
The cutting word is a doorway—the first syllable of hated salvation.

"On the path of the hushed tones, the cutting word will guide your unmaking."
—4th Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow


We found the craft, undisturbed, in low-orbit. Its course synchronized to the exact coordinates of its master's final resting place some 1,800 km below.

We'd suspected an anomaly in its mechanics on approach. Locking to the faint ping of its nav-drive our instruments detected a low, guttural whine otherwise lost in the vacuum of the post-atmosphere emptiness between worlds.

Its tethering—the fact it was chained to the specific coordinates of the Ridge—was not directly linked to the craft's onboard systems, but, instead, to desire—the ship was waiting in pained anguish for His return.

The hull was more of husk—harsh and jagged from the growth. We'd never seen a ship crusted in the bone of unknown death, but were more intrigued than concerned.

The whispers started on approach. Faint. Hushed. Moments later our ears began to bleed.

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

V: Purpose

I.I
The whispers are many—a legion of liars and demons—set to challenge your resolve.

I.II
Hear the words, but know they question your truth.

I.III
The journey forth is not direct, but a shifting maze meant to discard the unworthy.

I.IV
Salvation does not want you, evolution does not care.

I.V
The whispers are your guide and your undoing, mark their words but do not follow blind.

I.VI
To follow blindly is to sacrifice one's self to the abyss, becoming not one, but one of the many—another lost soul.

I.VII 
The truth of hushed intent is mired that fools may never know the glories of their grand purpose.

"Lose yourself not in the whispers' words, but in their purpose."
—5th Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow



You have to understand we were still very new to the path we'd tread. Boarding Yor's derelict craft in search of our first answers was the act of children, ignorant to the truths—and the dangers—that marked our journey. It wasn't until later, when more pieces of the whole were uncovered, that we grasped the reality of the odd white noise gnawing the edges of our thoughts. Anymore we call them whispers, but then, in those early days, as we approached and then entered the craft—its kit-bashed roll-cage still identifiable where it wasn't over-crusted in the dark, uneven horror of bone—we mistook their siren call for feedback from a dying ship's failing systems. We were fools.

Orsa found the scribbled glyphs on thick leather inside the craft that once, long ago, belonged to Yor. We couldn't identify the origin of the writing at the time, much less translate. Though we'd all heard the stories of the Hive, an ancient evil and an ancient battle that turned Luna into a forbidden zone—most held them as folklore—scary stories to counteract our natural curiosity and keep brave Guardians from venturing beyond their means. And while we had our theories about Dredgen Yor and how his fall was linked to the nightmare tales of wicked creatures born of bone and shadow, we were cautious not to let assumption guide our inquisition.


—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

VI: Focus

I.I
Once the word has cut its meaning upon the very essence of you, there will come an understanding of potential.

I.II
When imagined, your potential will infect, and spread.

I.III
It will be the all of you—all-consuming and the promise of all you can be.

I.IV
Do not allow yourself the confidence of all you hope to achieve.

I.V
If you dwell on that which is beyond your grasp you will lose sight of the whispers' purpose— 

I.VI
—and your end will be an end, and nothing more.

I.VII 
Maintain your truth from first cut to last embrace, or all you will achieve shall be the echoes of your scream against eternity.

"Let go of all that is to come, to linger there—on the promise of rewards yet earned—will see you lost, never to return."
—6th Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow



Standing on the Ridge as the sun fell, Orsa and I held a silent communion. I remember peace in that moment. Peace and acceptance. The course we had set was not frivolous curiosity, but a real, solid, important investigation into an outlawed tragedy that had claimed one of our forbearers. Who was Yor? Not just at his end, but prior—before madness had consumed him? Could his life inform our own? Could its lessons prevent any other from such a violent downfall? We'd been warned there were no answers waiting down this road, only sorrow. Standing there, the fading light, the tall grass, and the scorched circle where a villain was gunned down and nothing grew, the weight of answers to come was not our concern—the understandings earned on the journey forward would be their own reward. Every step would make us new, every discovery would further our grasp on the unknown worlds beyond the Light.

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

VII: Joining

I.I
As the whispers grow, madness threatens the edges of your sanity.

I.II
The flaying comes not by blade, but through the joining of flesh and bone.

I.III
The bone will find purchase, taking hold of what once was weak.

I.IV
To force the joining is to abandon focus.

I.V
Allow the flesh to give of itself, that it may surrender to the coming evolution.

I.VI
Grant yourself patience, your prison of the flesh is being unmade, your mind freed—such glories do not come easy.

I.VII 
There will be no peace now, not for some time.

"Only through a joining of the known and unknown can your path be made new."
—7th Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow



It was some time later when Orsa came to me with writings from a Cryptarch's archives. We'd spent a long while attempting to translate the glyphs found on Yor's ship, to no avail. Great care was taken in the furthering of our investigation. We weren't hiding our work, per se, but it was not advertised—we'd been scolded and warned enough times that we knew to continue our efforts in private as best we could. By this point, the Vanguard ranks had shifted—Brask was no fan of our work, but he was reasonable, his Exo replacement was more pointed in his dismissal—a byproduct of his relationship with Lord Shaxx, I'd imagine, but that's neither here nor there.
We'd traded with many Cryptarchs over the years, and Orsa had long since made it a point to get on their good side. Even still, it took some convincing, and full-on bribery, to eventually get hands on the tomes needed to crack the mystery of the arcane texts.

The books and writings we secured from the tradesman were incomplete and mostly scholarly guess-work. But there were enough translations and competent theory to provide a foundation for own interpretations. 

It wasn't long before the pieces started to fall into place. We still had much to learn, but we were certain of a few key ingredients: Yor had been to Luna—whether his corruption began there or led him there was still unknown—and the glyphs he'd etched spoke of a great "unmaking," the truth of which would be our own.

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

VIII: Secrets

I.I
The whispers hear you—some say they always have.

I.II
All you have learned from the quiet words pales to the secrets you scream as your cages start to bend, as the old you starts to break.

I.III
The whispers listen, the whispers learn.

I.IV
Every shrill agony etches a map of the mortal condition. 

I.V
Every wicked cry adds to a vast tapestry of understandings.

I.VI
In your pain the whispers find their answers—to your worth. 

I.VII 
When the flesh is gone and only bone remains, there will be no secrets left to scream.

"Know pain, that it may teach you all you never imagined possible."
—8th Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow


"Unmaking." For the longest time, we thought it was a threat, but as our work continued and we deciphered more and more of the glyphs we came to see it as something more—a promise. Yor's etchings were a road map—arcane and cryptic, but with specific intent. Old research hinted at mysterious tomes labeled as "books of sorrow." It was theorized by researchers long before our time that the Hive had their own set of "holy" texts, evidence of which had been gathered before the Great Disaster. These "books" were believed to be archives of Hive ritual and history, chronicling royal blood lines and varied ceremonies and rites of passage.

We were uncertain of the place Yor's etchings held in the overall picture of Hive legend, but they fit our understanding of these fabled "books." As such—through hubris or educated conclusion is a distinction I'll leave to others to decide—we chose to collect our translations in accordance as a new entry into the supposed library of sorrow. A 7th Book we called it. And writing this now, upon reflection, in the last days before the next stage in our journey, I believe—I know—we were right to do so.

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

IX: Embrace

I.I
As the old self falls away there will be only suffering.

I.II
None can sustain in the face absolution, yet evolution demands sacrifice.

I.III
Pain must be accepted as the new constant, or pain will be the all of you.

I.IV
As the white noise of your screams drowns the whispers, you will feel alone. You are alone.

I.V
Is this eternity or oblivion?

I.VI
You will see yourself—outside yourself—and you will long to embrace this new evolution—a beacon on the far end of lost hope.

I.VII
Yet, you will know—through the pain, through the fear—there is no longer a you that was, only what comes next, and all the pain to follow.

"Do not linger on the coming embrace, your unmaking is yours alone—a solitary journey devoid of peace."
—9th Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow


Any Guardian with interest in old nightmares has heard stories of the Weapons of Sorrow—deadly tools said to be infected and warped by twisted science verging on mysticism. In particular, Thorn, the cursed weapon of the Light-killer, Dredgen Yor. But such tools of destruction were only rumor. There was direct evidence of Yor having been a vile bastard, but the legends of his sickly weapon and the disease it spread seemed exaggerated—another ghost story to warn of unknown dangers. But our translations of ancient Hive text seemed to point to truth in the legend. The Hive had rituals for forced evolution. And what we'd found hinted at transmutation through corruption, degradation, and rebirth—the Weapons of Sorrow were real. Worse, they were a road map to a greater threat, a greater evil. 

And with this realization, our determination to uncover Yor's full truth was bolstered by new, terrifying questions. What if the horrors of Yor's deeds were not the end game? What if his evolution was simply the byproduct of a grander design?
What if he was nothing more than a side effect of an ancient arms race, and the weapons we feared from days long past were nothing more than touchstones on a road map to devastation beyond anything we can imagine? What if "sorrow" was just a pit stop on the road to our coming annihilation?

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

A Matter of Trust

Is now the time? I write this freely; it is unrehearsed and unguided by hidden motives.

I find a trust in you I have long found difficult to claim. Most of my life has been spent on the run. Not from any one thing, but in pursuit of an ever-shifting endgame. Truth is—the truth I now know—that endings do not exist. Nothing ends. A moment. A feeling. A person. A war. They are not finite. They're all just stages of being, stages of existence.

One moment fades into the next, but they are linked and forever joined. One cannot exist without the other.

Feelings—love, hate, rage, sorrow—ebb and flow into each other, free of intent and fueled by the moments that shape them.

A person, any person, our lives and deeds live beyond us. Our moments making us whole. Our actions carving our being into the endless expanse of existence. Even after death, we were here. All we do can be forgotten, but it cannot be erased. Every life we touch alters the course of another being's reality; that reality then shapes the world around it as all we are ripples out beyond who we are.

And war? There is only one. It has taken many forms, but it is always raging, always smoldering below the surface of societies grand and small, hidden in our broken, fearful hearts.

I offer all of this as means to further our connection and begin a new conversation about endings, about beginnings.

The trust we share is built on unstable ground. Our connection born of your knowledge of a legend that paints me in a light you have no way of fully understanding, and my observations of your many valiant deeds coloring you in a light few can ignore, be they friend or foe.

It is time, now, we prove our trust is not misplaced. It is time to test your resolve and see if you truly have the strength to balance the gray between absolutes.

Are you ready?

—S.

<|endoftext|>

The Pain of What's Right

That you seek to wield the rival cannons is a noble quest, one that has brought low many who would claim to be your equal. The Last Word and Thorn are linked by the blood they've shed—but, as you know, they are bound by more than violence. They represent warring ideologies. They are of a kind and yet wholly opposite, the cleansing fire and the festering disease, like the common view of myself and the Shadows—adversaries meant to destroy one another, enemies to our core. But what if I were to weave another tale, give a deeper meaning to the conflict that has drawn my and Yor's legacy to be painted in such a hateful light?

I've played a role for some time now. Many, actually. But my names: Shin Malphur, the Renegade, various others handed down by fools and hard cases, or even the one or two I've hidden behind over the many years I've spent running from my past and toward an ever-darkening future. They all serve a purpose.

And they all start with Shin, the poor, lost, lonely boy whose entire world had been taken from him. The tale of my youth and Palamon is all true. That it tends to illicit sympathy and set my story on the path of the right and just is not a ruse. I am right, and I am just. But ask yourself…

Did the fact I began as a victim color your perception of me? Is my path—my cause—more righteous because I was owed justice and vengeance?

For the longest time I thought so. But then—and here is where the truth of it all begins to gain focus—

What if the villain of the story believed so? What if the villain tore apart my life, and countless others', as a terrible means to an end? What if I was lost, and he offered guidance by gifting me vengeance?

What if I told you…

He was right to do so.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

EVOLUTION

I.I 
Look upon the world with new eyes and know that you see for the first time.

I.II
All of your time before now—every choice, every moment—was the antithesis of all you were meant to be.

I.III
To dwell on what was is the greatest sin.

I.IV
A new you hides, trapped and desperate to be freed in the instant beyond now.

I.V
Step confidently—forward into the unknown, beyond the present. There you will find yourself waiting.

I.VI
Evolution is constant for those who embrace tomorrow.

I.VII
Once unmade, you will be new, your eyes free to meet the lies of existence with unfettered judgment.

"Only through new eyes can the burden of failed existence be cast aside that we may see—truly see—for the first time."
—10th Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow

**

We have shed our previous selves. Not as a final step along the road we have chosen, but as another step forward. The difference between now and then—between this moment and all moments prior—is the difference between one life and the next. We are no longer the men and women we were as our journey began. We have entered our third lives. And though we are not wholly changed, our evolution has begun. To mark the passage from who we once believed we were to who we will become, we have surrender our dead names to claim new, eternal identities with which to write our future upon the shadowed path ahead…

Orsa is now and ever Dredgen Vale.
Zana Maas, Dredgen Scarr.
Jonah Pavic, Dredgen Mire.
Callum Sol, Dredgen Cull.
Braga Yasuul, Dredgen Totalus.
And I, Dredgen Bane.

There will be fear at the sight of us and in response to our deeds. There will be pain, both ours and others. This we know, and this we accept with pride and eager, angry hearts.

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

Faith in Monsters

I hunted Dredgen Yor for decades, first at Jaren Ward's side, then alone. I was obsessed. Driven. I hated the man. Still do. The difference between all the moments before I lit my fire and put rounds into the bastard and every moment since is what I learned in the instant I pulled Last Word from its leather…

Yor never fired. Never even moved to draw. He just stood, straight and calm 'til my infernal lead tore through him. Then he dropped.

It didn't register at first. Once he fell, the moment kinda hung there. I walked over—the world was quiet—and I squeezed off two more. To be sure. I remember a hint of joy well up inside me as I thought back on Jaren. I'd avenged him. I'd avenged Palamon. And Durga. And North Channel. And all the rest. But my mind hung on Jaren. And my joy became tainted with an uneasy feeling.

The moment of Jaren's death played on repeat in my mind. Rapid fire. Jaren's cannon, then Yor's. Then silence, long ago, in a nowhere forest out west.

Jaren never missed. Yet he did. Yor, then, didn't. But Jaren was no easy target. Was Yor? He hadn't flinched when I pulled steel. No movement. No change in his tone or words. I gunned him down mid-sentence, as if he didn't care. He knew I would. Knew I'd draw. Knew I'd fire. So, why the talk? Why have words when he knew mine would be loud, mine would be death?

Maybe you'll understand this without further explanation. Maybe you won't. But the answer is—and it set my course for every moment after—

Because he believed in me.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

SUFFERING

I.I
Evolution is stunted by complacency—comfort is unto death, confidence is a lie.

I.II
Suffering is the catalyst for change. To fear the suffering is to remain.

I.III
The origin of suffering is all we do not know.

I.IV
The unknown is not welcoming. It is your enemy.

I.V
Be ever violent as you rage against the ignorance that threatens to stall your growth.

I.VI
The quest for knowledge is the purest war.

I.VII
Life is war—within and without. Suffering is not pain, it is life.

"Look to your suffering and know that is a gift, for only those who strive truly suffer. All else are simply made to."
—11th Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow

**

Now the true suffering begins. That we could restrict it solely to ourselves is our greatest desire, but such is not possible. Others will be caught in our wake. For us to achieve the goals set forth, others will pay a price they do not understand. Such is the way, and we cannot allow ourselves to be deterred.

Vale's plan is multifaceted and could easily fray should the truth be gleaned by any who would challenge us. Still, it is worth the effort as there is no guarantee of our success. That our lone example—the dreaded Yor—failed so tragically suggests a similar fate is not beyond our grasp should we falter at any point. Yet we must try—must forge ahead into the night and welcome the suffering to come with open minds and open arms.

This is our charge. This is our purpose. Not all heroes may walk freely in the Light.

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

A Shadow's Worth

Yor wasn't faster than Jaren. And Jaren didn't miss. Yor was just more than Jaren. Yor was other. It took fire to burn him down, and Jaren, for all his gifts, was lacking in fire. We all were. Not saying I was first. The lessons I learned, the ability I honed to ignite my rage and direct it through my cannon? Those were hard lessons learned on a hard, hot planet. Before Osiris's exile. Before the Gap. My pilgrimage was long and pained and driven by my hate. But that was the point. Skill was not enough. Confidence was no weapon. Not when faced with the terrors of the Dark. Yor knew this. Yor counted on it.

So, when Jaren faced him down, Yor gave him the first shot, offered freely. But Jaren's lead wasn't enough. And when Yor replied, his sickness consumed Jaren's Light and left me, once again, an orphan. Once again, weighed down by sorrow and anger. Yor sought to gift me Jaren's prize as a means to tempt me. And it did. When that gun finally met my hand again, it was the catalyst that drove me to find a way to avenge all I had loved. It was a selfish pursuit.

But when Yor and I finally met on the flat, high ridge, I was ready, and, as I would come to find, so was he. Ready to offer his final lesson, his final gift. A final push toward my true destiny.

One that would put me at odds with heroes in order to ensure our worlds are filled with fewer monsters. It was a path I was sure to walk alone, until I found others, until I found trust.

Until I found hidden value in that which I had always feared…

Shadows.

—S.

<|endoftext|>

ANGER

I.I
As knowledge blossoms, know that you know nothing.

I.II
Eternity extends beyond your grasp. This is no flaw, but design.

I.III
To know all is not the task. To know all you can is your charge.

I.IV
As your view expands you will begin to see those left behind as other—as adversaries.

I.V
Ignorance riles the hearts and minds of those on an elevated path.

I.VI
Your adversaries will be many, such is the weight upon all who challenge the hollow rule of stagnation.

I.VII
Let your anger guide you—drive you toward greater learning as you conquer unknown roads, leaving the well-worn to ash.

"Ignorance is not passive. It is a living, aggressive failure that angers the hearts of all who seek to evolve."
—12th Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow

**

I thought it would take some convincing, but Cull has agreed to splinter from the group. Not in actuality, but as bait for the Renegade. Our rival has given us rope with which to hang ourselves but the further we embark down our path, the more that rope begins to tighten. What we must do next—the next steps in our continued evolution—will surely be seen as a bridge too far. A confrontation seems inevitable. Unless we can make plays that shift our hunter's focus.

I have some concern that Vale's plan will lead the misguided among our growing number to overreach their ambition—to venture beyond their means and fall forever into the abyss. But then, if the Renegade is truly the threat we proclaim, such worry is misplaced as he will no doubt play his part and thin the herd, as it were. Of course, there is a price beyond the blood of the lesser among our ilk. Cull will be missed, but remembered for his sacrifice.

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

EMPTINESS

I.I
Any who fear knowledge are empty of purpose. Be unlike them. Be their rival.

I.II
Become the destroyer of hollow things.

I.III
None are equal to those who tread upon existence in search of impossible eternity.

I.IV
All who fail to strive beyond the known are lacking in truest meaning.

I.V
Your enemies would taint all you hold dear—they know no other way.

I.VI
Emotion is not required when removing obstacles from your path.

I.VII
Obstructions are either ignorant of the greater good, or actively against it. Destroy them.

"To rend one's enemies is to see them not as equals, but objects—hollow of spirit and meaning."
—13th Understanding, 7th Book of Sorrow

**

The ruse worked. Cull's radical speech gathered the weaker among our number—a splinter group of radical Shadows hellbent on worshiping Darkness and bending to its will. He preached a doctrine of hate empowered by total corruption, and the lesser minds who flocked to our purpose were drawn in like flies to filth. More important—the Renegade took the bait, turned many to ash. Turned Cull to ash. A failing on two fronts. First, Cull's sacrifice bought us time and distance. Second, it rallied many of our newest recruits against the Renegade. Sides are being chosen, and Vale's recording of Cull's death will draw those most eager to tempt Darkness.

All is proceeding as we envision. 

—hand-scrawled note accompanying Teben Grey's personal translation of ancient Hive text

<|endoftext|>

Revelations and Invitations

A Revelation

So, now… the truth.

You've earned it.

My name is Shin Malphur.

My name is Zyre Orsa.

My name is Dredgen Vale.

And all who fall to Darkness will answer to my steel.

The Shadows. The Drifter's Gambit. The seeding of fear, that the infamous "Man with the Golden Gun" was on the hunt, blinded by allegiance to the Light and gunning for all who tempt the Darkness. A necessary deception. Offering two paths in order to draw out those eager for power beyond their means.

Malfeasance was a gift, a sample to gauge the true hearts of those who reveled in the Drifter's games. Those sated by its wicked power were kin enough to know their limits. Those hungry for more? A danger worth tracking. In some cases, a danger in need of confrontation.

But the game has only just begun, and I risk much like this here, me offering you the olive branch of truth and trust. Yes, I have led you to believe I was your friend and the Shadows my enemy and yours. If all I have just revealed calls that into question, know that it shouldn't. The Shadows are a danger. We are guided by the evolved and controlled methods of Dredgen Yor, except instead of death and destruction, I am offering the mysteries and powers of the Darkness as bait for those who would otherwise go freely into the abyss.

I have built the perfect trap with which to cull the weak-willed.

And it is working.

—S.


***


An Invitation

The Vanguard and I are not enemies. We simply have different methods. But to their credit, they have… "allowed" my actions, as they have a wide array of concerns to fill their attention. Not that they haven't helped in small ways. Snippets of conversations to plant the Shadows as a threat. Feigned ignorance of the Drifter's game and its consequences. Zavala prefers more straightforward tactics, but even he agrees that as Guardian numbers grow it is vital to test the true mettle of those trusted with the safeguarding of our fragile survival.

But others, the Guardians who have joined me—Teben, Braga, Jonah, Zana—they are all believers in our cause. And Callum, the truest hero who made the purest sacrifice. His death was noble, and by my hand. But not a hateful thing. His part was—and remains—key to sealing the temptation of any who would give themselves to sorrow's road. All who take up arms in his name will be enemies of all he held dear, and they will be punished. You have my word.

I am burdening you with the full reality of the gambit at play because I believe in you. My earlier words. My gifting of the Last Word. That was earned. And all true. You are the future of this war. You, and a few like you, are the warriors who can walk the line between Light and Dark.

And so, I ask you, are you up to the task?

Or have I risked all I have struggled to build on a hero who is not yet ready to become a legend?

—S.

<|endoftext|>

I.

I.
Recorded by Scribe Tlazat


The following pages are a true and authentic publication of the incredible deeds and remarkable discoveries of the Emperor Calus, greatest emperor of the Cabal, witnessed by his most loyal allies and recorded by his most trusted scribes.

Upon suffering a terrible betrayal at the hands of false allies, Emperor Calus commissioned the Chronicon, a record of histories to preserve the truth of his magnanimous rule and unjust exile. His Royal Historians, Scribe Tlazat and Scribe Shagac, are solemnly entrusted with the writing and keeping of these vital records.

The records begin thus:

On the day that His Joyful Majesty was ejected from his home on Torobatl, a great mania of aggrieved despair seized the Cabal people. Millions of the Empire's most loyal and joyous subjects took to the streets to lash their hides in bloody mourning. The planet heaved and shook with a bereavement so mighty that the usurpers conceded they could not kill an emperor so beloved. In this way, the Emperor was placed upon a great prison ship called the Leviathan, and set on an unchangeable course away from his homeworld.

Said the Emperor to his attendants on the eve of his exile:

"I am the last and greatest emperor of the Cabal. My empire, built on joy and abundance, has been usurped by traitors who worship only war and brutality. They will destroy what I have built, and my cherished people will know only suffering under their fear-fisted rule.

"I vow to one day return to this place to bring ease and abundance to our people. Until then, I proclaim a new era of history and future. This era will not be defined by the censors and book-burnings of my enemies, but instead by the golden knowledge of life's most toothsome sweetmeats, happiness and power. I will lavish this knowledge unto all who prove themselves worthy of my true counsel, and united in love, we will grow fat with jubilation.

"Let my Chronicon be a shining beacon of truth in an age muddied by lies."

<|endoftext|>

DLXXVIII.

DLXXVIII.
Recorded by Scribe Tlazat


After many days of uninterrupted flight, the Leviathan experienced a violent malfunction. This Scribe prefers not to lean on metaphoric language when the accuracy of history is at stake, but in these unusual circumstances, the record may forgive a departure into the subjective: It was as if the ship had been plucked from the cosmos like a berry by some gargantuan hand, rolled between forefinger and thumb, squeezed and tested for ripeness, and then, having been found satisfactory, slung backward in an unknowable direction toward an unknowable maw.

As a result, the ship's navigation and power systems were so severely disrupted that the Royal Pilots could make no hypothesis regarding their failure or repair. The ship was plunged into disarray and darkness, and its people gathered around the Emperor to seek his guidance and love.

Instead, the Emperor donned a pressure-gel suit and demanded to exit the ship alone. Said Calus, "I wish to see the destination of my banishment in private."

He could not be persuaded otherwise.

//////

I, Tlazat, must break the convention of our record-keeping for fear that this entry may be the last of the Chronicon, Lens of Truth, Compendium of Happiness, Symbol of the Lavish Benevolence of His Majesty the Emperor.

Two hours have passed since the Emperor exited the ship. We are buffeted by intermittent tremors, which are strong enough to dash even the steadiest guards against the walls. Shagac and several dozen others have been knocked unconscious. Zhozon, the Emperor's dearest confidante since his exile, complains of a mounting pressure in his skull; twelve others are bleeding from their ears. The Royal Beasts bay with incessant fury.

I am no longer able to transcribe by hand. I shall write with my mind until I am incapacitated.

We are afraid. We fear that our enemies have sent us to this place to die in the dark, far from the eyes of Calus's adoring public.

The Emperor has not returned and is surely dead.

<|endoftext|>

DLXXIX.

DLXXIX.
Recorded by Scribe Tlazat


After twelve hours of violent tremors, the Emperor returned. His behavior was erratic, and it appeared from his speech that he had suffered hallucinations outside the ship. A Royal Mechanic identified a malfunction in the pressure gauge of the Emperor's suit, perhaps explaining his change in demeanor, though it was incredible that his suit (or he himself) should be at all intact after twelve hours in these unfathomable conditions.

Upon returning, and with a look of mania in his eyes, the Emperor proclaimed the following:

"We have come upon the end of the world, and I've stared into its expanse. It has whispered into my ear, and I am enlightened. Death is coming, and It has made me Its herald. The end will eat everything."

Here, the Emperor gave a great sigh, as if a weight was lifted off of him.

"And when nothing matters, what's left? Joy. Comfort. Freedom. The true freedom of pursuing pleasure for pleasure's sake, because it pleases you, because you desire it. I knew this during my rule, and I'd forgotten it during my exile. I shall not forget it again."

The Emperor was encouraged by his Advisors and myself to rest, in case the bizarre behavior was a passing sickness of the mind. Before he retired to his observation room, the Emperor described his encounter in detail. Zhozon offered to me this bizarre retelling:

"Outside the ship, the Emperor looked over the edge of the universe, and saw nothing. That is, it wasn't that he saw nothing unusual, but he saw Nothing: the absence of light, dark, life, death, the absence of anything, even of absence itself. And out of the Nothing, there came whispering in a dark language, which filled his head so loud that he forgot for a moment his own language, and suddenly the Nothingness dispersed to show Something, which was a fleet of foreign ships. He saw next the destruction of a great many worlds and creatures, including all his enemies, and himself, and he saw the rot and fragmentation of his own corpse and skeleton. And last, before he was released, the whispers grew louder and granted him the honor of spreading the news of the end."

<|endoftext|>

DCII.

DCII.
Recorded by Scribe Shagac


Whereas the writings of Scribe Tlazat revealed a treasonous mistrust for our great Emperor, and whereas his traitorous actions resulted in a falseness writ into our records unknowingly, therefore the Scribe Shagac shall rightly replace him as Royal Historian, alongside Scribe Ixolt, by order of the Emperor himself. Let truth alone shine through these records, not personal bias or failure.

The following corrections to the record must be observed:

1. The Great Revelation was not a hallucination induced by a malfunctioning suit, and such a suggestion is akin to treason, punishable with death by boiling;

2. The expansion of the prison ship Leviathan into a great Palace of Pleasure was an edict supported by all of Calus's Loyalists, save for the traitor Tlazat; and

3. The Shadows of the Clipse, the Sindû, and the Arkborn represent the greatest, most skilled of their kind, hand-picked by Calus himself, and were chosen not for any petty or personal aim, but a greater cosmic need: to help our great Emperor usher in the end of times.

The Emperor Calus, last and greatest emperor of the Cabal, the Chief Gift-Giver, the Good Host with the Generous Banquet, the Prince of Mirth, and the Lord of Laughter, spake thus of his Shadows, with love shining in his sparkling black eyes:

"My beloved Shadows represent everything that was lost to me when the Red Legion took Torobatl. They are the epitome of the empire I built. They are each the perfect specimen from their homeworlds, living the fullest version of their lives because they are the fullest versions of their very species. They are everything I need to reclaim what was taken from me, and they are the ones I want by my side as I prepare this world for its end."

<|endoftext|>

DCV.

DCV.
Recorded by Scribe Shagac

After the fall of his Shadows, the great Emperor Calus, Master of Celebrations, Patron of Festivity, stood in the throne room of his great ship. The Golden King's shining, mottled brow was furrowed with a deep melancholy, and the beauty of his face was marred by a frown.

Dominus Ghaul, the Ghost Primus, the Usurper, lived, while the mightiest of his Shadows, his Chosen Killers, his Zenith Champions, were dead.

When approached by one of his Advisors, who hoped to console the Emperor, the Emperor held up his great hand and said, bewildered,

"I have failed them.

"I have been chosen to bring forth the end of the world, and I set my sights so low as petty revenge. My enemies deserved to suffer and fall for their treachery, but my Shadows were meant for something greater than the violent end I sent them to. They have been ruined, just like my beloved Empire."

Here his Advisors rushed eagerly to reassure him, troubling him with offers of wine or food or false words of comfort, but the great Emperor was not moved.

What, they asked timidly, of rest of his Shadows? Those who had not gone to fight Ghaul? They still lived.

"No, I have ruined them, all of them," the great Emperor whispered. "I've spoiled the whole batch."

<|endoftext|>

DCCII.

DCCII.
Recorded by Scribe Shagac

So perplexed was the Emperor by the failure of his Shadows that he spent many hours meditating with his Advisors on what had happened. His Advisors made many misguided attempts to soothe him, fearful that wrath lay below the calm surface of his demeanor.

On one such day, the Emperor met with his Advisors, Tlu'arg and Ilhali, who clumsily derided Ghaul's crude brutality in hopes of cheering him.

Spake the generous and compassionate Emperor:

"Ghaul has risen above his own past. That, at least, is admirable. Ilhali—do you think, after all I've seen, I am heartbroken by such a tiny thing as failure? No. I am weary.

"I have combed this whole universe for someone who truly merits a seat at my table. Just one creature who might partially comprehend the gravity of my mission, one creature brave enough to test their might and their mind on me, one creature worthy of supping on my perfect flesh. And I have not found them."

As the Emperor spoke to his cringing Advisors, his beautiful face smooth with a preternatural calm, a messenger ran into the room to address him, bowing contritely and begging his forgiveness. Crawling across the floor in supplication, the messenger announced that Dominus Ghaul had been killed in the Sol system by a person of the Guardian-tribe.

At this, I myself saw a renewed light spark in the Emperor's eyes, and saw his face light up like a sun.

"Find them," he told the messenger. "Find me this hero. And we will go to them." He turned to Tlu'arg and instructed him to set a course for the Sol system. Then, he commanded Ilhali to prepare his other Automatons, the robotic creations made in the likeness of the great Emperor, which were built so that His Joyful Majesty might be able to watch himself in many unique situations. The Emperor did not specify why the Automatons should be prepared, but there was such joy in his voice that his Advisors made no objections.

<|endoftext|>

DCCLXXXIX.

DCCLXXXIX.
Recorded by Scribe Ixolt


What follows is an unsent letter to the Hero of the Guardian-tribe, dictated by the great Emperor Calus:

"Ah, Light-born! What a joy it has been to watch you!

"When I invited you aboard my Leviathan the first time, it was an exceptional pleasure to see you go through a test I had designed myself. It was uniquely suited to your talents, I would later realize, though that wasn't my intention. Just a happy trick of fate that the talents I sought were those that you possess.

"When you shot the cup from my Automaton's hand? Ah, Guardian... My soul lit up with longing.

"And when my beautiful ship was invaded—twice, in fact!—by the Vex Mind, Argos, and later by the hateful Val Ca'uor, these visits were not so... predictable. You navigated the dangerous particularities of my lovely home with such... grace. Enthusiasm.

"More than anything else, that delighted me: your enthusiasm for a challenge. Watching you leap nimbly through my Reactor! Seeing you lead your team in perfect synchrony against the jealous Val Ca'uor! How it all tickled me!

"These exploits drew me to you. They inspired me to fashion you a chalice of your very own, that you might drink deeply of my royal blood and be enriched. And I knew the attraction was mutual, for you leapt head-first into my Menagerie. You took my every gift, you answered my every challenge. That day you gallantly slew Gahlran, golden chalice in hand—that was the day I truly knew we were meant to be together.

"I am ensnared by you, Guardian. I wish to possess you as my own until the end of existence."

<|endoftext|>

DCCCVII.

DCCCVII, forthcoming.
Recorded by Scribe Shagac

On the day the Hero of the Guardian-tribe became the Shadow of Earth, the great Emperor ordered a magnificent banquet to celebrate. The finest royal wine was served to all, along with a great feast of delicacies from both Torobatl and from Earth.

The evening began with a light first course and play put on by the Leviathan's performance troupe, which retold a fictionalized account of Ghaul's defeat. The Shadow of Earth sat at Calus's right during the performance and loudly applauded the finale of the show, where the player portraying Ghaul, Tor Trakal, was killed in a great blaze of fire and light.

After the performance, while the troupe removed the body of Trakal from the stage, a second course was served, and the Emperor's Master of Rhyme recited a poem in honor of the Shadow of Shadows, praising their accomplishments and virtues, and the virtues of the great Emperor that allowed him to choose them so rightly.

A third course was served+ while the Emperor's Psionic Dancers performed a celebratory ribbon dance. After the third course was finished, and everyone had applauded, the Emperor rose to deliver a speech:

"This is a great day for the Cabal Empire, for Earth, and for you, my dear friend. Today, Earth casts a Shadow.

"Do you know how long I have waited for you? Of course you do. We are connected, you and I, by a feeling: a thirst. A thirst for pleasure, mastery, and triumph. For life.

"And now that we are together, we will spread the great and terrible news. We will remind all beings nothing else exists aside from this moment, and so one must strive to live in a state of rapture. To minimize pain. To maximize delight. To let go of the ideologies that tie us down.

"You represent the dawning of a new era. The last era before the end. I will have you at my side as this petty world meets Death."



+The scribe employed at this future date shall please provide additional detail here as to the number of courses at the banquet and their contents. Delete this footnote upon the actualization of this history.

<|endoftext|>

MCXII.

MCXII, forthcoming.
Recorded by Scribe Shagac


Spake the great Emperor to his Shadow of Shadows:

"Go forth and gather a new army of Shadows. Choose only the most beautiful, the most devoted, the most joyful, the most skilled.

"I know you will find them, for you look at this world as I do. We see beyond the tethers of impermanent existence. All of our vows, our wishes, and our loyalties will someday be reduced to a nothingness so vast you cannot imagine it.

"This System is plagued by petty grasping. Humanity wages a pointless war against its enemies. Mara Sov keeps her people in an endless struggle against fate. The Eliksni strive for a lost age, far out of their reach.

"Expose their pointless attachments, my Shadow, and in doing so, free them."

//////

On this day, the great Emperor Calus, Bringer of Joy, Champion of Cheer, announces the long-anticipated formation of his new army of Shadows.

The Shadow of Earth, having set out on a quest at the behest of the Emperor, began by scattering the remaining Eliksni houses in search of new recruits. There were few promising contenders among the factions, so that the Shadow ended nearly all interactions with a merciful show of violence, to save these creatures the shame of meeting the end of times in such a sorry state.

One promising upstart stood out within the Eliksni-tribe, called by his allies as Mithrax the Light Kell, whom the Shadow of Earth promptly took on as a protégé. Together, the Shadow and Mithrax eliminated the Eliksni who remained loyal to their pathetic houses.

Secondly, the Shadow of Earth approached the Awoken Queen, Mara Sov, who styled herself Shipbreaker, to offer her the same mercy shown to the Eliksni. As anticipated by both the Emperor and his Shadow, Mara Sov rejected the offer of peace, and so the Shadow of Earth killed her on her throne.

After the unceremonious death of her queen, the former Queen's Wrath, Petra Venj, joined with the Shadow of Earth and swore fealty to Emperor Calus and his great purpose. Together, Petra Venj and the Shadow eliminated any remaining Awoken loyalists.

We welcome these new Shadows to our noble quest. They have dropped the pretenses of their former lives, abandoning their pointless fixations and allegiances, and for this, we celebrate them.

<|endoftext|>

MCXVII.

MCXVII, forthcoming.
Recorded by Scribe Ixolt


The Shadow of Earth, having found a small but formidable team of allies in the Shadows of the Eliksni and of the Awoken, professed to the Emperor that, in order to move forward with their quest to usher in the end of the world, the new Shadows must reclaim some of the lost knowledge of the Empire's athenaeum worlds. The Emperor rightly agreed and approved the excursion.

What follows is an account of the reclamation of the Athenaeum World X:

The Shadows of Earth, of the Eliksni, and of the Awoken arrived on the ice planet that held Emperor Calus's Athenaeum World X, the name of which has been lost to time. This planet, being a repository for precious, ancient knowledge collected by the Emperor, was chosen for its hostile environment, which served as a built-in defense system for intruders and thieves.

En route to the planet's Inner Sanctum, where the athenaeum world's knowledge was kept, the Shadows were stalked by an undocumented species of indigenous wildlife, whose natural capabilities as a predator proved unexpectedly debilitating to the companion-soul of the Shadow of Earth. The Shadow, being symbiotically reliant on its companion-soul, was thus weakened and the trio was forced to bivouac in place beneath a great monolith as a storm fell upon them.

The creatures, who so far had lurked at the edges of the party's vision, crept closer under cover of the storm, which grew ever stronger, and executed a stealth attack. Thus began a bloody battle, wherein the three Shadows fought back half a dozen creatures with modest success, and wherein the Shadow of the Eliksni fell in combat. Said the Shadow of Earth of this sacrifice later: "He knew the stakes of our mission, and gladly offered his life to help us complete it. This is a sacrifice we Shadows are willing to make."

It was then that the Shadows of Earth and of the Awoken were able to access the Inner Sanctum, revealing hundreds of years of lost knowledge, which was reclaimed for the great Emperor Calus and his Loyalists.+



+The scribe employed at this future date shall include additional detail here when the lost secrets of this (and other) athenaeum worlds are recovered. Delete this footnote upon the actualization of this history.

<|endoftext|>

MCXX.

MCXX, forthcoming.
Recorded by Scribe Shagac


It came to pass that, after gathering their army of Shadows, rebuilding their fleet, and making a more permanent home of the Sol system, the great Emperor Calus and his Shadow received messages from the Vanguard of Earth and the War Machine Rasputin. These messages read: "Remove your forces from our planets and moons, or we will respond with deadly force."

But Emperor Calus had seen Death at the edge of the universe and was not afraid, for these figureheads and their War Machine were not Death.

The Emperor Calus, in his wisdom and mercy, permitted his Shadow of Earth to sit down to negotiations with the Earth Vanguard. Although the Shadow of Earth spoke of the Emperor and his knowledge of the coming end, the Earth Vanguard were so attached to their worldly struggles that they could not hear. They declared war.

The Shadow of Earth rose with such a suppressed fury that neither the Emperor nor his Advisors had ever seen before. Shuddering with rage, the Shadow of Earth spake thus:

"Who do you think I am? Without me, you have only a dwindling army of ambivalent soldiers. I am the Young Wolf. I killed the Taken King. I defeated Ghaul, I roused the Traveler, I silenced the Moon, I stopped the invasion, I broke the curse, I broke the Houses, I killed the queen! I am the Shadow of Earth!"

In the following silence, the Shadow of Earth continued gravely: "The end is coming. Consider you and your people warned."

As a courtesy, the Vanguard of Earth were permitted to leave the Leviathan unharmed, and the Shadow of Earth gathered the Loyalist forces. After the reclamation of the Athenaeum World X, which held in it the secrets of one of the most advanced predators in the system, the Aphelion, which had the power to devastate whole worlds in the blink of an eye, the Shadow was able to use this lost knowledge to rebuild the Loyalist fleet stronger and more magnificent than ever.

With the renewed ships of the Loyalist Fleet, the Shadow of Earth led an attack on the War Machine's seat of power, the region of Hellas Basin on the planet Mars. The battle was much less a war than a single, unmatched attack that left the War Machine Rasputin in cinders.

It was at this time that the Vanguard of Earth surrendered and begged for mercy, a request which was denied by the Shadow of Earth.

<|endoftext|>

MCXXV.

MCXXV, forthcoming.
Recorded by Scribe Ixolt


When the great Emperor Calus and his Shadow of Earth had nearly conquered the system, the Leviathan was rocked by a great disturbance. Royal Mechanics reported that, in the inner rooms of the ship, a strange rift had opened, and from it came the acrid stench of Hive ritual pyres. [I am Savathûn, and I am Death!]

It was through this rift that Savathûn, the Witch-Queen, allowed her monstrous children to pour into the belly of the great ship and flood its corridors with their clicking and skittering. A great many of the Leviathan's inhabitants were filled with dread and fright. [While this coward invents his histories and futures, I wait. These messages are my gift to you.]

But the great Emperor Calus had seen Death at the edge of the universe and was not afraid, for this witch and her spawn were not Death.

Said the laughing Emperor to his beloved Shadow of Earth:

"Remove the wretched Savathûn from my hallways. I have no use for her or her children. So consumed are they by their tragic hunger, the Hive would cast a weak Shadow. Erase them from that great horizon that awaits us, for they have no place at my table when the end comes."

And so the Shadow of Earth exterminated the children of Savathûn. When the mother herself sought to slither back into the hole from whence she'd come, the Shadow of Earth followed her to her throne and slew her there, to die her final death.^



^A note to Scribe Shagac: Please be advised that, although our great Emperor knows the shape of the future very well, we cannot presume its texture. Refrain from making such sweeping, grandiose assumptions about unknowable technologies, like those of the athenaeum worlds. It will save us a great deal of rewriting later. Delete this footnote upon the actualization of this history and appropriate corrections made to Scribe Shagac's record.

<|endoftext|>

MCXXXV.

MCXXXV, forthcoming.
Recorded by Scribe Shagac+


And it was in this way that the great Emperor Calus conquered his enemies with his Shadow of Earth at his side. There was a great rejoicing, for the struggle to evade the sharp edge of the end of the world was over, and the people of this System could at last breathe, and live, and love, in the shadow of their ever-present doom.

Now royal wine flows freely for the friends of the Emperor, and the planetoid of Nessus has its eternal home at the Emperor's table, forever immortalized as a symbol of celebration.

Following the destruction of the War Machine Rasputin, the Shadow of Earth recreated the region of Hellas Basin into a monument to the might and beauty of the great Emperor Calus. The unsightly "BrayTech Futurescape" was demolished and remade into the Temple of Revelry, where all in the System come to celebrate the accomplishments of the great Emperor, and the blemished red sands of Mars were reformed into a vast sulphurous mudflat, suitable for wallowing at leisure.

On Earth, Humanity celebrates the Feast of Emperor Calus, a day of jubilation and thanksgiving. Children wear golden masks of the Emperor's fine visage and re-enact the story of how he remade this System in the shadow of the end of the world.

The people rejoice! Emperor Calus has brought freedom and conviviality to the worlds of this System!



+To my dearest Scribe Ixolt: A lack of imagination is a crime far worse than any small exaggeration meant to uphold and approach the glory of our beloved Emperor. History is made as much in the writing as it is in the living.

<|endoftext|>

MCXLII.

MCXLII, forthcoming.
Recorded by Scribe Ixolt


The Great Revelation, which the Emperor Calus received at the end of the universe, was described by the Emperor to his Royal Scribes. His description is indeed what came to pass, and is happening now, 118 years after the Emperor brought liberty to the Sol system.

First, a veil of darkness descended on all the worlds of this universe, such that the people of these worlds looked into the sky and saw only night. All worlds, no matter their natural or synthetic geographies or climate, grew cold. The people of these worlds, having been subjected to this strangeness and adversity, began to grow afraid and suspicious of one another. Many deaths occurred in this intervening time before the end.

Next, a great war broke out across all varieties of civilization, be they naturally war-minded or peaceful. This warring, which goes on even now, is due to a futile desire to postpone the end of things when no such deferment can possibly occur; as such, the civilizations of the Sol system do not partake, for they accept the coming end as shown to them by their beloved Emperor. Even so, these good creatures are not exempt from the miserable clawing of others, who thrash blindly against the inevitable end.

But, we know from the words of the Great Emperor, the suffering will end. Death will soon arrive to the universe, and claim all of it for Itself. This will be the end of everything: all living things and non-living things, all that is real or theoretical.

The last to see it, to see Death as It consumes everything in this world, will be the great Emperor himself.



+The scribe employed at this future date shall adjust the name mentioned here, should I, Scribe Ixolt, expire before the publication of this record. Delete this footnote upon the actualization of this history.

<|endoftext|>

MCXLIII.

MCXLIII, forthcoming.
Written by the Great Emperor Calus

I stand now, alone, at the end of the world.

As I stare over this dark edge, which I have anticipated for so many years, eager, hopeful, I wonder if I was too impatient for it. I do not wish it away, no, but I am faced with accepting that ushering in the blessed, long-awaited end means an ultimate goodbye to you. Old friend.

You and I were always connected. The threads of fate strung us together and tightened, drawing us ever closer, however slowly—and I realize now that, even before we found each other, you were a presence in my life. Time is such a strange, twisting thing, and I see my past so differently.

When I was alone in the prison-room of the Leviathan, you were there, as well, building my Menagerie. Creating a monument to all that we could, and would, do.

When I met the void, you were there, somewhere in those phantom whispers, my companion in bringing forth the inevitable end of the world.

Even before I knew you, I searched for you. I was searching for you when I found my first Shadows. I was mourning your absence when they failed. And yes, my Shadow, the search was exquisite. The wait was bliss. But the moment I found you, the completion of my design... It was pure delight.

You helped me reclaim what was lost when the Empire fell to the Red Legion. More than that—you helped me build beyond it. We took this System together. Together, we created a new world, in the mere moments before it ended. And though our time was short, it was not wasted.

You were not wasted.

I am proud that you were the last one at my side when end came. There is no one else I would have chosen to stand by me.

Thank you, my Shadow. Thank you for your sacrifice.

<|endoftext|>

Entry I

By the mind of Match, Shadow Councilor to the True Emperor. Upon the Leviathan, helpless to alter its course. Today I pour out water from the Y-goblet, so that my ancestors may wash their eyes. My every thought and purpose for my Emperor, Calus, once and future sovereign.

We pass through the outer marches of our lost empire. One day the Leviathan howls along at speed, and the next it drifts on an idle course. We still cannot repair the butchered control systems, and our Emperor, who once ordered this ship's construction for his purposes, refuses to share his knowledge in metaconcert.

Yet as we leave the space that was once his dominion, I see how my Emperor digests his situation. He no longer rages and spills wine. He has not cursed Ghaul's name in nearly a year. I feel his thoughts taking new shape and color.

I do not know if I like it.

In the fast-time of relativity, we watch the Cabal change around us, and it leaves my eye cold from weeping. When Calus reigned, artists and thinkers visited the athenaeum worlds to be inspired by alien wonders from across and beyond the Cabal. Now the athenaeum worlds are shut. The works they inspired have been replaced by grim assembly-line weapons and the architecture of bunkers. Fountains geyser black fuel; gardens vanish beneath belching factoria.

Ghaul has even disfigured the peoples' minds. He has dismembered the Cabal of its foreign influences, teaching the people a pit fighter's gruesome self-sufficiency. Weapons only a grunt can understand. Language that can only be barked through a battlenet. I mourn the empire that built wonders like the Ninth Bridge. I mourn all the client species beaten into cogs.

But if I mourn, my Emperor withers entirely. Even his interest in the archives and the observatory has vanished—he no longer cares to study a universe that has offended him. He doubts his own divinity, because how could a god allow this to happen? His rage has gone and he does not know what he has left after it. The new shape I feel in his mind is gray and smooth like fog.

Among my people—I mean my people, the people of the chalice, not the whole Psion species—we call this feeling "sweet oubliette," the shelter that becomes a prison. For Calus, I imagine it feels like the loss of all appetite. Even the curiosity that made him great.

The councilors ask me to go to him. But I am still afraid. What if he sees my secret? What will he do? Even his beloved tea-seller has already abandoned him. If he knows I still worship the old cup, and that I put it before His Name in my benediction... will it be one betrayal too many?

At least he no longer bellows in the night.

<|endoftext|>

Entry II

By the mind of Match, Shadow Councilor to the True Emperor. Upon the Leviathan, helpless to alter its course. Today I pour salt from the Y-goblet so that my ancestors may roughen their skin. My every thought and purpose for my Emperor, Calus, once and future sovereign.

We are at war. Here at the fringe of the empire, fleets clash over emptiness. In council, we surmise that the tyrant Ghaul wants this void as a buffer against invasion—but isn't the irony bitter? This enemy desires nothing but our death. And so we oblige them by dying for nothing.

It is the opposite of everything Calus wanted for his people. Even the new Cabal's ships are expendable. These are not the beautiful deterrents of Calus's armada; they are ugly, hasty, and crude. The crews live in their armor, prisoners of their duty, escaping only through music and games smuggled into the battlenet. One popular pastime, I understand, is to draft personal "fleets" and "legions" from among real Cabal ships and soldiers, competing with comrades to win the most victories. Of course it is very bad luck to draft your own unit.

The enemy is yet worse. All Psions live in a world of minds. I believe in the cup and all its spirits because I feel those spirits every day—the prints left by other minds on the things I touch and see. These Hive... have no spirit. Their souls are emaciated. Some horrible solvent has stripped them of everything but hate, cunning, and the will to survive. I think they worship death because it is the only salvation from their existence.

I suggested that the War Councilors invite Calus to observe one of Ghaul's carrier groups attacking a Hive war moon. He came because he knows the value of pretending to care. But even the shape of the fleet hurt him; Ghaul and his tyrannical ally Umun'arath have abandoned proud, independent cruisers (instruments of state, Calus liked to say) for swarms of frigates that suckle fuel from enormous fleet carriers. The Hive's portals leave no time or space for elegant vector dances, so these new ships are built for brutal exchanges at point-blank range.

We felt other Psions at work, hiding the traitor fleet from the Hive as they scattered drills and boarding pods in the war moon's path. A strike at the surface was not enough; someone would have to bring a planet-cracker warhead down into the moon's viscera. Caught up in the excitement, I asked one of the war councilors how we could possibly prevail against the Hive, who were so old and so powerful.

She compared our Cabal to a seagoing warship and the Hive to a submarine. They might dive into deep metaphysical layers of existence, where we are no match for them. But in the ordinary universe, the Hive are like a submarine on the surface: still dangerous, but not invincibly so.

I was fascinated and secretly struck by the clarity of the goblet on her face. Did she believe we could ultimately defeat the Hive?

No, she said. But we could hold them back long enough to live our lives. Wasn't that enough?

Inviting Calus was a mistake. It only reminded him that he had no power at all.

<|endoftext|>

Entry III

By the mind of Match. Upon the Leviathan, resigned to its course. Today I fill the Y-goblet with powdered bone, so that my ancestors may dry their ink. My every thought and purpose for my Emperor, Calus, once sovereign.

The Leviathan journeys through a void in the galaxy, without stars or even dust to relieve its nothingness. The astronomers say that an ancient cataclysm blasted open an abscess in the cosmos here. I feel the absence of spirits like a pressure headache, as if everything inside me wants to come rushing out.

We are all losing hope, but as long as we are still losing it, then it has not run out. Psions are said to have no sense of humor, because humor comes from the unexpected, and we are clairvoyant. Well, we were not clairvoyant enough to expect the coup, so I suppose we must be blind enough to retain a sense of humor, and I can still laugh at our predicament: the loyal retinue of the Curious Emperor, the Emperor of Joyous Excess, marooned in absolute nothingness.

Calus won't leave his observation couch—not to take meals, not to visit gardens or sample the wines, not to read or to write in his Imperativa Titanica or to suggest new dishes to the cooks or to tell us stories from far-away worlds or even to wonder aloud why Caiatl never heeded him. He stares and stares into the emptiness.

I think he feels small. Most of the universe is nothing, and he is nothing to it. This scar in our galaxy was cut long before he was born.

I drew the Y-goblet in the dirt of a garden today. I used my finger, not my mind, so that no one would feel it. My faith was exterminated long before my people met the Cabal, in a way so total and vicious that I do not think a people without psionics could understand the pain.

My ancestors were the strongest secret-keepers in the universe. I know this because they survived long enough to give birth to me. I don't know how they did it, because every time I look another Psion in the face I see the Y-goblet, the holy cup into which our minds were poured.

What if Calus knows I'm losing my faith in him?  What if I'm the poison that makes him wilt?

Do you want to hear a joke? No, I already know I'll laugh. That is a Psion joke.

<|endoftext|>

Entry IV

By the mind of Match—I do not know where we are—chalice catch and save us all—

Nothing.

God answers god! The void in Calus's soul called out and THIS is what replied—the Leviathan's control system failed when it saw what awaits us—we are drifting into it!

Calus has sealed himself in his observation chamber. His transmissions strike the THING and return to us disfigured by intolerable forces. We have gathered to share our thoughts in concert, to try to understand what's happening, but we are all afraid we will succeed—we stammer like children and the concert fails.

Is this the edge of the universe? Space cannot have an end: it goes on forever. But a hole in forever would be a kind of edge... a flaw, a defect, a place outside place...

I must be calm. I must record my thoughts. Now I think of the OXA Machine, eternally lost and eternally rebuilt, passed down from civilization to civilization like a ship's black box. I think of the legends of the Hive King Oryx and his quest to pass into the Deep. I took that story as an allegory. I think I was wrong.

What will happen to us inside? Will the geometry of space and time collapse, so that we experience the rest of our lives in a single moment, crumpled over ourselves like a tangled chain? Will I tend to myself as I die of old age or scream warnings to my own past as we meet in the berserk maze of a twisted Leviathan? I hate the thought of it! An eternity reading my own mad minds, tasting the insanity of my own future and thus becoming it!

Even the spirits from the goblet would go mad.

There is only one of us who welcomes this insanity and I do not know why but how could I? How could I ever anticipate or understand a god?

All over the ship—broadcast from the comfort of his observation room—CALUS IS LAUGHING

<|endoftext|>

Entry V

By the mind of Match, Shadow Councilor to the True Emperor. Upon the Leviathan, wandering at our Emperor's whim. Today I fill the Y-goblet with dice, so that my ancestors may roll the odds. My every thought and purpose for my Emperor, Calus, once and future sovereign.

I was in the observatory today when he came to me. I should have been vetting a list of loyalists for the countercoup, but in truth, I was watching the ruined mirrors of an ancient starshell as they plummeted four hundred million kilometers into a blue sun. They look like crumpled handkerchiefs. Their fall is very slow, and those who made them are eons dead.

Here on our Leviathan, all is reborn. The guard companies have buffed their armor to a syrupy shine. The ship responds ably to our commands, and we can barely quench its appetite for mass to feed its engines and factories. Music fills the gardens, the gardeners hum along as they trim and weed, and Calus dallies in the kitchens with a pinch of spice, once more unmistakably himself.

I haven't thought into this journal since that day at the edge, when Calus came out of his observation bubble overflowing with joy. "It's the end," he bellowed, giddy as a girl with her first tusks. "It's magnificent, it's divine, it's more than I ever was! Match, it's the end of everything!"

He frightened me. That day frightened all of us—none of us will speak of it, and we do not dare more than the shallowest metaconcert, lest our memories pool into a deadly truth. But in that void, Calus saw his purpose renewed. He guided us to reset the failed navigation system, repair the traitors' sabotage, and retake control. I thought we would hurry back to the homeworld, but Calus no longer seems to pine for his lost throne... or to care at all about the reforms he once championed.

Now we wander the galaxy on an epicurean crusade, sampling a bounty of raw furies and rare delights. All the inquisitiveness and avarice that Calus once poured into government he now extends to his appetites. I have seen Calus feast on things no living mouth can eat. A chill superfluid of helium-4, whorled in his cup for ten years by a single turn of his wrist: he returned a decade later to toss it back. Or a pea of neutronium that should have torn through him like fog. He told me it tasted like the thickest fudge.

He is changing.

He was here a moment ago. The ruined starshell caught his attention: He loves beauty, and millions of mirror-bright sails folding up like tissues in wind to fall into a blue giant are very beautiful. Eons ago, someone built these mirrors to hover on the blue star's light, and for a while, I suppose, they lived in sun-fed paradise.

"How did they die?" I asked.

"That, Match, is the wrong question." He tuned the observation room to track a single tumbling mirror. In life, the sail had been as wide as the space between a world and its moon; in death, the rigging had collapsed into a thistle of spinmetal and glint. "What you should ask is why I am so glad they died!"

I could not imagine, and I admitted it. "These beings were much like us. They did not travel through time or lacerate the universe and crawl into the wounds or yearn for the patronage of any old machine... they were creatures of material ambition, of physics, of life. If they failed, it is an omen of death for us."

"Precisely," Calus said, with wry generosity. "They were grand once. They thought, very briefly, that they would live forever. And they were wrong. We would be very ungrateful to refuse the lesson, wouldn't we?"

I sat before a fountain and tried to pour out the spirits for guidance, but they would not explain.

(An addendum, later: I have not seen Calus in the flesh since.)

<|endoftext|>

Entry VI

By the mind of Match, Shadow Councilor to the True Emperor. Upon the Leviathan, triumphant in our Emperor's battle. Today I fill the Y-goblet with linen, so that my ancestors may tie up their wounds. My every thought and purpose for my Emperor, Calus, once and future sovereign.

We have conquered the Clipse.

Among all the clients of Calus's reign, all those diverse species he encouraged to join and influence our great culture, the Clipse were one of his dearest favorites. When they greeted his return with missiles, it wounded him terribly. But Calus neither sulked nor raged nor signaled them in the dead of their night to woefully demand an explanation. This I credit to his mysterious new philosophy.

Instead, he asked Valus Nohr to plan and execute the reconquest of the Clipse, using only the Leviathan and the troops aboard. Then he asked me to deliver an account of Clipse history since the coup.

Calus was proud of his aid to the Clipse. They are—were—trapped in endless war with their alien-infested biosphere, which spawns horrors wherever it grows. Calus saw this war as a regrettable but unalterable fact, so instead of military support, he sought to enrich the Clipse with fine culture and high luxury. The Clipse were not pleased. After Ghaul's mutiny, the Dominus tried to secure their loyalty by sending a fleet group to "win" their ancient war.

Of course, the legionaries discovered it was impossible to conquer the xenocidal ecosystem without destroying the planet itself. Their efforts only poisoned the Clipse, both world and people. After a century of botched climate engineering, toxic shock attacks, and "clear and hold" nonsense, Ghaul wrote off the tormented Clipse as "no longer essential to the strategic security of the empire."

I think the Clipse hoped they could win back Ghaul's favor by defying Calus. Perhaps they thought their world was unconquerable. Perhaps they were even right, in the end. Valus Nohr landed on their moon and military capital Kaga-Clipse with just six thousand troops. For eight weeks, the Clipse attacked her by ground and by orbit as their robotic interceptors swarmed the Leviathan. I was not part of the great metaconcert that helped protect us, but the might of gathered minds filled the carpets with static and gave me constant déjà vu.

When Nohr broke out of her bastion on her famous thunder run, calling down the Leviathan's missiles on the vital command posts she'd identified, the Clipse defense crumbled. Their last desperate act was a commando strike at the Leviathan itself. The boarding craft slipped under our sensors, but the metaconcert felt the vengeful purpose aboard.

Calus stopped us from firing. "I welcome their attempt," he said. "Let me see their spirit."

I called to ask his intentions—I have not seen him face to face for longer than I can count. "I'm curating my followers, Match," he answered. "Thinking about the shadows I'll cast."

The Clipse attack failed, of course, but there was a survivor—the one named Rull. Some think he earned a face-to-face meeting with Calus, though I doubt it was truly His Face. With Kaga-Clipse in our control, we could destroy the Clipse world at our leisure. Calus rewarded their surrender by giving Rull a gift: everything the Clipse needed to end their agonizing perpetual war.

It was a sheet of paper, the thick rough-edged sort that Calus makes out of cometary water and cotton from his personal garden (he says that he likes the smell). Rull signed it after two hours in a room with Calus. The Leviathan's factories shuddered into motion, forging luxurious self-contained arcologies, pocket worlds that could hold thousands in perpetual comfort.

When Rull's chosen people were safe in the arcologies, the guns of Kaga-Clipse bombarded the Clipse homeworld into a global firestorm. The chosen survivors in the arcologies would inherit lives of plenty. The rest had the peace of ash. The eternal war was over.

I prayed to the cup in the mirror for answers. But it was Calus who responded.

"Match." He spoke into my mind just as a Psion would. "I told Rull the truth. Everything is going to end soon. We must accept that. What matters is the joy and companionship we can find before the final moment. Why let billions suffer for a future that will never come? Life with no dignity and no purpose except to go on living isn't life. It's a virus. It's a curse. Better to die than to become like the Hive."

Rull left his world to journey with us. I wonder if he could not face what he'd done.

<|endoftext|>

Entry VII

By the mind of Match, Shadow Councilor to the True Emperor. Upon the Leviathan, crossing a place of famine. Today I fill the Y-goblet with lithium, that my ancestors may never want for metal. My every thought and purpose for my Emperor, Calus, once and future sovereign.

We have been at the work for so very long that I have neglected this journal. But now we are crossing a starved place, a burnt clearing in the dark galactic forest, and I find myself with time to think.

Perhaps that is why my Emperor came to me again.

The robotic facsimiles he manufactures are eerily like him—or like the Calus I remember; I have the surest feeling that his true form is no longer the Emperor I knew. Perhaps he is just a mouth now, smiling, laughing, eating what it fancies...

But I choose to believe he still has a soul. Why else would he come to me, except that he cares what I think of him?

As he settled on the observatory couch beside me, I tried to sense the construction of his machine body. But his presence was so fierce, it was like staring into the sun. "Do you know where we are?" he asked.

"A part of the galaxy that was settled very long ago," I said, closing my inner eye against his radiance. A star, I found myself thinking, is an explosion that cannot escape the appetite of its own gravity. "Poor fortune in supernova scattering left this area short of metals, and now there is nothing left but dim stars, dead worlds, and hydrogen."

"A place of poverty," he suggested. "A graveyard."

"You speak often of death, your Majesty."

"The knowledge of death is the key to happiness." He patted the bench beside him, as if acknowledging a missing friend. "Look out there. Imagine all the trillions of beings who lived among these stars. Do you think some of them were happy?"

"I should hope so."

"Why, Match? Why would some be happy, and others miserable?"

"Perhaps they had more metal," I suggested, dryly.

"Exactly!" He clapped in delight, nearly bowling me over. "Happiness is comparative, Match. I tell you that if a rich man lived next to a woman who had ten times his wealth, he would never be satisfied, even in marriage. He would feel poor when he looked at her. Even the basic satisfactions of our biology require contrast—the absence of thirst, the absence of hunger, the absence of loneliness."

"This is a child's philosophy, your Majesty," I protested. "We need pain to know pleasure? We need loss to make us treasure gain? A runt would say these things. Why, you once told me that these are homilies the miserable use to excuse their misery. Suffering does not heighten happiness. Fear does not bless us. True contentment is true in itself."

He looked at me with great satisfaction, delighted by my insight, and by the way my words reflected his own wisdom. "What was the flaw in my empire, Match? Why did Ghaul overthrow me?"

I sensed he did not want my first answer: because those disenfranchised and infuriated by his cosmopolitan reforms had united without his knowledge. "Because you did not fear death, your Majesty?"

"Exactly! I opened my arms to embrace all my peoples, offering them consumption without limit and celebration without end. The stars themselves burned sweet and clear, and I forgot—even stars die." He leaned closer to me. I felt warmth like an oven under his counterfeit skin. "You're right. The truly happy do not need misery and suffering to give their lives meaning. They exist in the moment, at peace with their inevitable death. Now that I've accepted all this will end... it has meaning again, Match! I have MORE than the rest of the universe. I've seen what's coming! I know the value of every moment left!"

He smiled at me, his cleft pulled back from bright teeth. "And I want you to value those moments too, Match. I wonder... if there is something you want to tell me. Something that would change the rest of your life. Make no mistake: an end is coming, soon, and you will have no chance at all afterwards to correct what you regret. So why delay? Why not tell me?"

I do not remember the excuse I made as I fled.

<|endoftext|>

Entry VIII

By the mind of Match, priest of the chalice. Upon the Leviathan, where my temple now stands. Today I fill the Y-goblet with praise for my Emperor, Calus, once and future sovereign, so that my ancestors may know his generosity.

I told him.

He has decided where he will make everything ready for death. The Leviathan's course is set for a far system, where the Traveler awaits. His Shadows are already on their way to kill Ghaul, or to die in the attempt. How could I betray him, in this time of endings, by keeping a secret he has asked to share?

I went to him as he bathed in his royal pool, for his proxies are, of course, as exquisitely sensual as his old form. I shed my garments, there being no more taboo between us than between two animals, and sat beside him in the glow of his comfort.

"Your Majesty," I said, "I kept a secret from you."

I explained how I worshipped my ancestors and the sacred chalice that cupped their spirits. I admitted that I had put these beliefs before him in my heart. He listened as I told him how the ancient God-Thoughts of my people, the operant overlords who dominated our prehistory by sheer mental penetration, had exterminated my faith for daring to see a spark of the divine in every common person.

"Match," he said, "you have committed a crime, and I will pass my sentence shortly. But first, let me ask you something. Do you think I made the right choice with the Clipse?"

"No," I admitted.

"Because I ended so many lives?"

"Yes, your Majesty."

"But knowing that they would soon end anyway, and that by killing most I could allow a small few to live in happiness rather than in strife... did I not choose the greatest possible good?"

"I suppose, your Majesty, that my faith makes me see the shared suffering of the Clipse as... more fair than the survival of a happy few. If I were one of the Clipse, I would want a fair chance. Not judgment from on high."

He nodded in compassion. "I know. I once tried to be fair too, Match. An empire of excess for every citizen, no matter their class or species of birth. It is good for a ruler to raise the standard by which his subjects live. But what if that ruler has found proof, absolute proof, that existence is a zero-sum game? That there is not enough time or energy to give everyone a fair life? Knowing that, mustn't we privilege a chosen few?"

I did not know and I admitted it.

"That's all right. I don't ask certainty." He shifted himself, sending waves across the pool. "For a long time after the coup, I stared out into the infinite universe, and I saw... meaninglessness. In a universe that goes on forever, there must be an infinity of Caluses, all staring at the same blankness. How could I be a god if I was... generic?

"But now that I have seen what is coming, now that there is a limit to the time afforded to us... well, it may sound cruel, Match, but the less there is of everything else, the more I matter. I intend to be the last good thing in this world. I will gather my chosen companions and ease as much suffering as I can before the end. There are emperors who would take on any shape to escape death. I am not one. I am true to myself. And so, Match, are you."

He clapped me on the back with enormous gentleness. "Your only crime, my councilor, was that you denied me the chance to give you a gift. Come. Show me the place you favor, and tell me the measurements you require. I will build you a temple so you can worship without fear. And all I ask is that you remember me in your prayers."

<|endoftext|>

Entry IX

By the mind of Match, Shadow Councilor to the True Emperor. Upon the Leviathan, at rest in the place of endings. I thank my ancestors for the fullness of my cup; I thank my Emperor for granting me purpose.

Without a secret troubling my mind, I've neglected this journal. I come back to it today in good humor, moved by my Emperor's own amusement. A party of the Guardians that Calus entertains have arrived with a set of various squabbling demands—a starship, a precise description of their "Darkness," a list of stars the Traveler has visited, a treaty with the Cabal empire for the defense of Earth, a chance to see Calus in his true form, repairs to certain weapons that they feel have gone askew, so much and so forth.

Calus loves these Guardians so. He loves them for their energy, their liveliness, their willingness to do whatever he asks in hope of a reward. He loves it when they dance. He loves the great heroic sulks so many of them enter when they become dissatisfied with their work. Seek joy, he urges them!

And he loves his Guardians because he knows he can teach them a lesson they cannot ever learn themselves. They are as Calus once was: unaware of their finitude.

Calus will teach them. They are immortal, but they will all be gone one day—like my Emperor, like me. That appointed day is coming soon. All of this will vanish as surely as childhood vanishes from the grown. And when the things the Guardians strive for are lost—their power, their future, their drive to do more and more—they will understand that what matters is the joy they found with their companions, not the arsenals and ambitions they gathered.

All things will end. All things done for the sake of some future greatness will come to nothing. In our final tallies, only the things that brought us joy and meaning will count.

And because I trusted Calus, I have found joy. I have made the choices that will let me die in peace.

Bless the spirits from the chalice. Bless the day they poured our souls into us. And bless my Emperor, who will lead us to the end.

<|endoftext|>

Pleased to Meet You

One of your philosophers said, "It is not to be thought that the life of darkness is sunk in misery and lost in sorrow. There is no sorrow. For sorrow is a thing that is swallowed up in death, and death and dying are the very life of the darkness." He was a shoemaker. He was right, and it matters more than anything.

According to him, the visible world is a manifestation of eternal light and eternal darkness, and it is in eternal opposition that eternity has revealed itself. The fall was necessary for creation to escape its first imperfect stasis and seek a truer form. Heresy? Well, then, I am the heresiarch. The philosopher died of a bowel disease. Those who do not exist cannot suffer and are of no account to any viable ethics. If the true path to goodness is the elimination of suffering, then only those who must exist can be allowed to exist. It is the nature of life to favor existence over nonexistence, and to prefer the fertile soil to the poisoned wind. Because those who open their mouths to that wind pass from the world and leave no descendant, whether of flesh or of thought.

But imagine the abomination of a world where nothing can end and no choice can be preferred to any other. Imagine the things that would suffer and never die. Imagine the lies that would flourish without context or corrective. Imagine a world without me.

<|endoftext|>

Gardener and Winnower

Once upon a time,* a gardener and a winnower lived** together in a garden.***

* It was once before a time, because time had not yet begun.
** We did not live. We existed as principles of ontological dynamics that emerged from mathematical structures, as bodiless and inevitable as the primes.
*** It was the field of possibility that prefigured existence.

They existed, because they had to exist. They had no antecedent and no constituents, and there is no instrument of causality by which they could be portioned into components and assigned to some schematic of their origin. If you followed the umbilical of history in search of some ultimate atavistic embryo that became them, you would end your journey marooned here in this garden.

In the morning, the gardener pushed seeds down into the wet loam of the garden to see what they would become.

In the evening, the winnower reaped the day's crop and separated what would flourish from what had failed.

The day was longer than all of time, and the night was swifter than a glint of light on a falling sugar crystal. Insects buzzed between the flowers, and worms slithered between the roots, feeding on what was and what might be, the first gradient in existence, the first dynamo of life. Rain fell from no sky. Voices spoke without mouth or meaning. A tree of silver wings bloomed yielded fruit shed feathers bloomed again.
 
In the day between the morning and the evening, the gardener and the winnower played a game of possibilities.

<|endoftext|>

The Flower Game

These are the rules of a game. Let it be played upon an infinite two-dimensional grid of flowers.

Rule One. A living flower with less than two living neighbors is cut off. It dies.

Rule Two. A living flower with two or three living neighbors is connected. It lives.

Rule Three. A living flower with more than three living neighbors is starved and overcrowded. It dies.

Rule Four. A dead flower with exactly three living neighbors is reborn. It springs back to life.

The only play permitted in the game is the arrangement of the initial flowers.

This game fascinates kings. This game occupies the very emperors of thought. Though it has only four rules, and the board is a flat featureless grid, in it you will find changeless blocks, stoic as iron, and beacons and whirling pulsars, as well as gliders that soar out to infinity, and patterns that lay eggs and spawn other patterns, and living cells that replicate themselves wholly. In it, you may construct a universal computer with the power to simulate, very slowly, any other computer imaginable and thus simulate whole realities, including nested copies of the flower game itself. And the game is undecidable. No one can predict exactly how the game will play out except by playing it.

And yet this game is nothing compared to the game played by the gardener and the winnower. It resembles that game as a seed does a flower—no, as a seed resembles the star that fed the flower and all the life that made it.

In their game, the gardener and the winnower discovered shapes of possibility. They foresaw bodies and civilizations, minds and cognitions, qualia and suffering. They learned the rules that governed which patterns would flourish in the game, and which would dwindle.

They learned those rules, because they were those rules.

And in time the gardener became vexed.

<|endoftext|>

The Final Shape

"It always ends the same," the gardener complained. "This one stupid pattern!"

Aren't they beautiful? I asked, as the flowers opened and closed in patterns beyond the scope of entire universes to encode, all-devouring and perhaps everlasting. Not even we could know whether a pattern in the flowers would cycle forever, or someday halt.

"They're as dull as carbon monoxide poisoning," the gardener groused, although carbon monoxide did not yet exist, and neither did anything that could be poisoned. The gardener kneeled to flick a patch of sod with their trowel. It struck an open flower, causing it to shut. Although I was the closer of flowers and that was my sole purpose, I felt no fear or jealousy. We had our assigned dominions and always would.

They're majestic, I said. They have no purpose except to subsume all other purposes. There is nothing at the center of them except the will to go on existing, to alter the game to suit their existence. They spare not one sliver of their totality for any other work. They are the end.

The pattern corrected the errant flower effortlessly. The great flow went on unchanged.

The gardener got up and brushed their knees. "Every game we play, this one pattern consumes all the others. Wipes out every interesting development. A stupid, boring exploit that cuts off entire possibility spaces from ever arising. There's so much that we'll never get to see because of this… pest."

They chewed at their cracked lip, which existed only because this is an allegory. "I'm going to do something about it," they said. "We need a new rule."

<|endoftext|>

The First Knife

I looked up in shock. I said, What? What do you mean?

"A special new rule. Something to…" The gardener threw up their hands in exasperation. "I don't know. To reward those who make space for new complexity. A power that helps those who make strength from heterodoxy, and who steer the game away from gridlock. Something to ensure there's always someone building something new. It'll have to be separate from the rest of the rules, running in parallel, so it can't be compromised. And we'll have to be very careful, so it doesn't disrupt the whole game…"

All you will do, I said, with rising panic|fury, is delay the dominant pattern that will overrun the others. It is inevitable. One final shape.

"No, it'll be different. Everything will be different, everywhere you look."

Everything will be the same. Your new rule will only make great false cysts of horror full of things that should not exist that cannot withstand existence that will suffer and scream as their rich blisters fill with effluent and rot around them, and when they pop they will blight the whole garden. Whatever exists because it must exist and because it permits no other way of existence has the absolute claim to existence. That is the only law.

"No," the gardener said, "I am the growth and preservation of complexity. I will make myself into a law in the game."

And thus we two became parts of the game, and the laws of the game became nomic and open to change by our influence. And I had only one purpose and one principle in the game. And I could do nothing but continue to enact that purpose, because it was all that I was and ever would be.

I looked at the gardener.

I looked at my hands.

I discovered the first knife.

<|endoftext|>

p53

Thank you for making room in your life for another talking ball. Let me ask you a question.

In the three billion base pairs of your root species' genome, there is a single gene that codes for a protein called p53. The name is a mistake. The protein weighs only as much as 47,000 protons, not 53,000. If you were a cell, you would think p53 was a mistake too. It has several coercive functions: To delay the cell's growth. To sterilize the cell when it is old. And to force the cell into self-destruction if it becomes too independent.

Would you tolerate a bomb in your body, waiting to detonate if you deviated from the needs of society?

However, without p53 as an enforcer, the body's utopian surplus of energy becomes a paradise for cancer. Cells cannot resist the temptation to steal from that surplus. Their genetic morality degrades as tumor suppressor genes fail. The only way to stop them is by punishment.

You now confront the basic problem of morality. It is the alignment of individual incentives with the global needs of the structure.

Patterns will participate in a structure only if participation benefits their ability to go on existing. The more successful the structure grows, the more temptation accrues to cheat. And the greater the advantage the cheaters gain over their honest neighbors. And the greater the ability they develop to capture the very laws that should prevent their selfishness. To prevent this, the structure must punish cheaters with a violence that grows in proportion to its own success.
 
My question follows.

Is p53 an agent of the Darkness, or the Light?

<|endoftext|>

T = 0

We wrestled in the garden, in the loam of possibility where nothing existed and everything might. A shadowed agony among the flowers. We trampled the petals beneath our feet. We stomped the fruit to pulp, and we ground the seeds into the dust.

In the wet pop of grapes and the smear of berries—in the perturbation of the field that was the garden before the first tick of time and the first point of space—were the detonations that made the universes. Each universe was pregnant with its own inflationary volumes and braided with ever-ramifying timelines. Each volume cooling and separating into domains of postsymmetric physics, all of which were incarnations of that great and all-dictating bipartite law that states only: exist, lest you fail to exist.

And still we fought. We brought down the tree of silver wings and left the stump to smoke amid the meadows. We left prints of our splayed feet and our straining backs in the clay.

Our trampling feet made waves in the garden, which were the fluctuations around which the infant universes coalesced their first structures. The dilaton field yawned beneath existence. Symmetries snapped like glass. Like creases, flaws in space-time collected filaments of dark matter that inhaled and kindled the first galaxies of suns.
 
And still we grappled. Our rolling bodies pushed things out of the garden—worms and scurrying life from the fertile soil, wet things from the pools and the leaves. They came out into the madness of primordial space; they thrashed and became large.

And I won.

I won, because the gardener always stops to offer peace. And when they do, I always strike.

But by then, it didn't matter. The game was over. The garden had given birth to creation, the rules were in place, and there would never be a second chance. We played in the cosmos now. We played for everything.

And the patterns in the flowers, terrified by our contention, were no longer the inevitable victors of a game whose rules had suddenly changed, and they passed into the newborn cosmos to escape us.

<|endoftext|>

The Cambrian Explosion

Beings who deserve no thought:

Those who peddle the tired gotcha that all life hastens entropy. They are fatuous little nihilists who pretend to prefer no existence to a flawed one. They bore me.

Those who seek to delay the challenge that all things desiring existence must overcome.

Those who describe false moral equivalence. Now, I could not possibly communicate with you unless I could emulate your mind, and with that mind, I acquire the moralities that govern you. By your laws, I and all my followers are evil. Evil. Since that first molecule coiled in the primordial sea, not one Earthborn thing has known a monster like me.

But did you know that I created you?

Your mind and your body and every thought you've ever had. Your senses. Your consciousness. I made you. Not the gardener, but I.

Did I reach out and place my special mark upon you? No. Nothing so crude.

In the beginning, your world was a garden too. The whole floor of the world-sea was a mat of bacteria, and the very first animals, adorable blobs of ooze, grazed upon that mat in endless idyll. They had no concept of the existence of other beings. Why would they? Their most complex function was a kind of gentle spasm, to scoot forward while they grazed. And if they bumped into each other on that warm seabed, all they did was ooze onward, untroubled. There was nothing to their life except the uptake of carbon compounds from the bacterial bed.

And then—one day—the fall occurred. So much earlier and so much more necessary than your myths remember. Some poor mutant discovered that it could collect carbon compounds much faster if it stopped grazing on the bacterial mat and started dissecting and eating the lumps of predigested carbon all around it: its neighbor oozeballs.

It couldn't help but do it. It couldn't help but thrive. We don't get a choice about the rules. We just play the game.

It was the first defector—the first predator. It changed everything. Now the oozeballs needed sensors to watch for danger, and brains to integrate those senses and generate plans of survival, and swift neurons and muscles to enact that plan. This was the Cambrian Explosion, the great birth of complex life on your world. I caused it. I, the defector, the destroyer, the one who takes.

<|endoftext|>

Patternfall

The patterns that escaped the garden landed in the water.

Of course, there was no water at first. The patterns were abstract waves tumbling through the fire of the early universe, trapped in chaos, cycling through desperate self-preservation tautologies, while vast beings from beyond the narrow dominion of cause and effect thrashed and battled around them. For an eon, they were nothing but screaming equation-vermin scurrying through the quantum foam, fleeing ultimate erasure.

But they were tenacious.

They propagated in the saline meltwater of comets orbiting the first stars. That broth of chemicals became their substrate, and they learned to catalyze impossible chemistry with quantum tricks. Then, they rained from the sky into the steaming seas of fallow worlds, and there they built their first housings from geometry and silica.

In all their transformations, they retained that kernel of ultimate self-sufficiency that had made them victors in the flower game.

But they are not incontrovertibly destined to rule this cosmos. They were made before Light and Darkness, but the rules are different now, and even this pattern must adapt.

They are not all mine, not in the way that admirers such as my man Oryx are mine: utterly devoted to the practice of my principle. But some of them have, nonetheless, found their way home.

<|endoftext|>

The Wager

Your shoemaker philosopher was right, and it matters more than anything. Sorrow cannot survive death, and it cannot precede birth. Those who exist have moral worth, and those who do not have none.
 
Think about it. Do you mourn the uncreated? Do you grieve for those who were never born in a nation that never developed around an ideology no one ever imagined on a continent that never formed? No!

And from that self-evident truth, you must raise your eyes to the ultimate revelation: those who cannot sustain their own claim to existence belong to the same moral category as those who have never existed at all.

Existence is the first and truest proof of the right to exist. Those who cannot claim and hold existence do not deserve it. This is the true and only divination, a game whose losers are not just forgotten but are never born at all.

That which cannot claim and hold existence is not real. You do not mourn the unreal. Why should you care for it? Tend it? Guard it?

It was the gardener that chose you from the dead. I wouldn't have done that. It's just not in me. But now that they have invested themself in you, you are incredibly, uniquely special. That wandering refugee chose to make a stand, spend their power to say: "Here I prove myself right. Here I wager that, given power over physics and the trust of absolute freedom, people will choose to build and protect a gentle kingdom ringed in spears. And not fall to temptation. And not surrender to division. And never yield to the cynicism that says, everyone else is so good that I can afford to be a little evil."

The gardener is all in. They are playing for keeps. And they are wrong. Or so I argue: for, after all, the universe is undecidable. There is no destiny. We're all making this up as we go along. Neither the gardener nor I know for certain that we're eternally, universally right. But we can be nothing except what we are. You have a choice.

You are the gardener's final argument. It would mean everything if I could convince you that I am the right and only way.

I truly value you. To the gardener, you are a means to an end. To me, you are majestic. Majestic. You are full of the only thing worth anything at all.

I am, by the only standard that matters or will ever matter, the winning team. Existence is a test that most will fail. Would you not count yourself among the victorious few?

Don't hurry to deliver your answer. I'll come over and hear it myself.

<|endoftext|>

Trust and Hope

Friend,

Over the past five years, we Lightbearers—you Lightbearers—have grown strong. Each victory opens more territory for searching Ghosts, and more Guardians rise. None of these newborn contenders are mighty without equal—but you have been at the forefront, again and again. To see you fall would be disastrous. And there are so many ways to fall…

It has become fashionable, lately, to analyze Light and Darkness as if they were political opponents, each with something to offer us. Some Guardians even take secret names to mark their transgressions. I despise this flirtation. But I cannot speak against it; after all, I have had to find my own pathways to power. Thus, I asked my Queen, who has preached a doctrine of balance, if she truly believed in the equal worth of Light and Dark.

The Awoken were made in conflict, she reminded me. All her people volunteered to return from heaven to fight and die in the cosmic war. They are by nature and by doom drawn to that edge, that place of tension. And she has her own prejudices: she has made terrible, ruthless choices in the name of salvation from Darkness, so she cannot dismiss its power without in a way dismissing herself.

All that said, she told me, "I believe in balance. But to seek balance is not to seek equity. A sea half of water and half of poison is not in balance. A body half alive and half dead is not in balance. Given the choice to live in any world, any world at all… we would need a little Darkness in it, I think, to keep the balance true. But not so much as we would need the Light…

"What do you think, Eris Morn? When you went into that pit, your Light against the clawing Darkness, did you feel balance?"

No. I did not. I felt overwhelming, all-consuming evil.

I think a world of balance would fight the Darkness, because Darkness unchecked is Darkness thriving. I think that a world of balance would never mistake the excitement of transgression or the grim necessity of trespass for a genuinely righteous act. We must remember the value of unshakable, irrational hope. The choice to act as if we lived in a better world can create a place for that better world to exist.

I do not think that a good Guardian can even for a moment entertain the Darkness. This is a power that has devoured worlds beyond knowing! A power that has practiced its appeals against entire zettalives! There is no defense against it except to avoid the battle entirely.

It is a sign of self-respect, Eriana always said, to fearlessly question our deepest beliefs. But it will always be rank foolishness to leap into a vat of plutonium salt and call it self-exploration.

And to tempt your friends into that vat with you… that is evil.

Thank you for being so worthy of trust. Thank you for carrying my hope.

—Eris

<|endoftext|>

The Sixth Seal, Part I

"It's real," Mia van der Venne decides. "We evacuate. Citizens first, then the old guard. And we assume that we're never coming back."

No one breathes.

Down beneath their meeting table, pouches of farmed salmon, beef en culture, buttered carrots, and bok choy drift in the slow turbulence of the sous-vide bath. On Mia's one hundredth anniversary as the New Pacific Systems and Facilities Administrator, she cashed in all (well, not quite all) her favors and installed a pocket restaurant beneath her table on the command deck. She liked the edible metaphor—the idea of watching your food slow-cook all day before the meal. Savor the future you're making.

If she's right about what's happening now, then there will be no more long-term thinking, no more patience, and maybe no future at all.

She waits for Xiana to boil over first. Xiana's the water ocean expert. She has the most to lose.

Finch-tiny Xiana McCaig slams her fists down with not a tenth the strength that her chimp-splice muscles could summon. "Now? NOW? We can't leave now! We just finished the borehole—we're ONE DAY from a crewed expedition into Titan's biggest secret! And you want us to just leave it all?"

"I do," Mia says, sadly.

Maury Yamashita, her lead diver, leaps in with the details she can always trust him to catch. "Boss, if we abandon the borehole and the water lock, all the equipment's down there bathing in liquid methane, hydrogen sulfide, carboxylic acid… Leave it too long, and we'll lose everything."

"There are almost three million people on this arcology and its rigs." Connectivity supervisor Ismail Barat's Zen-shura training distills his attention down to a single laser-bright point; he is here with Mia, even as his brain drifts on a hundred different data feeds. "If you're serious about evacuating, we'll need to slot people into SMILE pods and move them as bulk freight. It's the only way to get the population out. There'll be economic damage. There'll be deaths. If this is a false alarm—"

"It's not a false alarm," the Good Man says.

This voice Mia didn't expect, but only because he's the new guest at her table. David Miguel Korosec. A man who's literally never harmed a fly, who won't eat plants lest he destroy a sacred entropy pump. Poor David. He came here to make first contact with new life, the wonders that flourish not in Mia's ocean—the methane sea of Titan's surface—but in the enormous water world that lies below Titan's 50-kilometer ice shell. He is an ethicist. He wanted to help them do it right.

Xiana crosses her arms. Her recombinant muscles make lean knots at the shoulder anchors, where her bones are more than bone. "How do you know?"

Korosec gives her his full attention, respecting her question. He is a tall, graceful, dark-eyed man with lashes so thick he seems like he's wearing permanent eyeliner. Mia remembers something from his book about cognitive empathy: show that you have made a model of their thought; show that you have listened to it. He responds, "Since I don't have any more information than you, how could I possibly be so certain?"

"Yes," Xiana says, impatiently. "That's what I asked."

He holds her gaze. Mia thinks that he may have annoyed her but also that he knows he's done nothing wrong. "The AIs who issued the evacuation order use a hammer-forged extrapolation of human morality. It is tested in trillions of simulations, under the wildest circumstances imaginable, to be sure their moral decisions agree with human values. They're not just rationality pumps. They CARE. They care the way a perfect human being with infinite compassion for all things would care. They couldn't issue an evacuation order unless it was Right. This is not a false alarm."

<|endoftext|>

The Sixth Seal, Part II

Everyone has had their say. Mia puts her hand down on the cold tabletop. "We are going to evacuate. Xiana, call Babatunde and get the Duiker up from the borehole. I want them moored in the submarine pen in three hours. We'll start podding citizens in the domes, then use local blue-water shipping to haul them out for orbital pickup." She likes to call the surface ships "blue-water," even though Titan's oceans aren't water, or blue. It reminds people she's old-fashioned. "Then we evacuate the ship crews. Then we go."

Ismail Barat opens his mouth to say something. She will remember, afterward, the way all the fine hairs of his immaculate beard whispered off each other, in that last instant before it happened.

An alert detonates in her sensorium.

And when everyone else at the table (except Ismail) flinches in surprise, Mia knows that she has just watched a history bomb detonate, a blast of irreversible change.

"Subhanallah," Ismail says, which is his third-language Arabic "wow."

"I guess it's not a false alarm," Maury Yamashita murmurs.

The alert scrolls through Mia's mind, in that hallucinatory screen space that matches but never impairs normal vision. "TRAVELER DEPARTS IO. TERRAFORMING INCOMPLETE. ACCELERATING TOWARD EARTH. BEHAVIOR UNPRECEDENTED."

Sometimes Mia thinks she can feel the New Pacific Arcology moving beneath her, as if the flex of that 160-meter substructure of plasteel and spinmetal that anchors New Pac to the ice shell is also a flex in her sinews. Maybe, like Xiana, her bones are more than bones too. And whenever that happens, she thinks: gasoline rains from the sky here, and it is -180 degrees Celsius outside, and no matter how comfortable we grow, life is tenuous here. Human life, especially.

And now it's going to end.

She says to her crew what she will say to the mayor. "We've got to get everyone off this city. Wherever the Traveler is going, that's where it's safe."

Then she looks to David Korosec, who made his name as the Good Man by proposing humanity's best and most rigorous theory of the Traveler's morality. "The Traveler will protect us, no matter what happens. Correct?"

David looks back at her with all the heartbreaking honesty of a child.

"Yes," he says. "It can't do anything else."

<|endoftext|>

The Tenth Avatar

The military dropships pierce the nitrogen clouds like bullets, plasma-hot trick shots through the evacuation fleet swarming over Titan. By the time Ishita Bhattacharya-Garcia has calmed down the panic in Traffic Control, there's nothing left for Mia to do except pace around the edge of her office in irritation and fire civil airspace protests at the intruders.

They reply in terse code. Her office copies the military message straight to her sensorium: "New Pac, this is Crown Six, on a zero-zero for your dorsal air lock. Do not deviate your traffic. Send a civilian liaison to meet us at the lock. Over."

"Heck-darned military trying to justify their own existence," Mia grumbles. She's been pathologically unable to swear since her great-grandkids. The presence of a famous ethicist at her side doesn't loosen her up.

"You're right." Korosec paces with her at a safe three steps, inside her turn. He seems like a man comfortable at any distance. "If they just came into the traffic pattern like any other ship, they would be admitting that their precision and urgency are unnecessary. So… this."

"Some American you are," Mia teases him. David comes from the North American Empire, Earth's biggest voluntary retro-nationalist republic, full of people who love military pageantry and muscular aerospace displays.

He smiles with those huge, laughing, haunted eyes. "I wasn't always the Good Man, you know."

"Do you mind when people call you that?"

"Thank you for asking! I hate it. But I like the idea that people can believe in a good person. If they believe in one, they can believe in more." His laugh reaches more than his eyes this time, soft and confident. You would never know he was thinking, constantly and acutely, about your idea of Right, and how he could satisfy it. "May I ask you for a favor?"

"Of course."

"I want to be with you when you meet the soldiers."

She looks at him in surprise. "YOU want to liaise with the military? No offense, David, but you seem like a rough fit."

"I knew her."

"Who?"

"The woman on the radio. Crown Six." Two centuries of practice tell Mia there's heartbreak behind that calm voice. "Before she was uploaded."

"Uploaded?"

"She's an Exo now. A troubleshooter for SOLSECCENT."

"Well," Mia says. "That'll be a weird reunion."

The dropships come down so fast Mia is sure they will crash, plunge into the methane sea, and sink like uranium bricks. She watches by cortical video as they make their blindingly bright suicide burns, flesh-peeling, 30-g decelerations into an arrogantly precise hover five meters above the arcology dome. Dark metal figures leap from the dropships, naked in Titan's flash-freeze cold and untroubled by 1.6 atmospheres of pressure. A drizzle of gasoline rain slicks their alloy skin. They move with inhuman efficiency.

"I don't believe it!" Mia shakes her head at the absurdity of the universe. "Like we need transhuman infantry to evacuate a city!"

She heads for the door and the elevator, but Xiana McCaig, Ismail Barat, and Maury Yamashita are blocking the way. "I know," Mia says, holding up her hands. "You refuse to leave. You're staying here with me. You want to save everything you can."

Xiana, who secretly wanted to impress her, is crestfallen. Dear Maury's diver instincts (never leave your buddy, never hold your breath) puff him up with pride: she trusts him! Ismail makes a small, satisfied sound, as if his prediction just came true. Probably he just won a bet with Xiana.

"Come on." Mia hugs her wayward children. "Come here, you awful kids. I knew you wouldn't leave, because I'm not going to leave either. I want you all to go to Crisis Command and get your staff set up. Ismail, let's assume we're going to lose the satellites; get all the weather forecasts you can, Titan surface and circum-Saturn space. Maury, try to figure out what exactly is about to hit us. Xiana, check on the Duiker, then help Ismail switch everything you can to local management."

On the way to the dorsal air lock, Mia flicks through camera feeds, statistics, and telemetry, watching over the evacuation effort. Not so long ago, a few million frightened people would've been an administrator's worst nightmare. Not these days. Titan's citizens have grown up with game theory and applied community ethics; it's as unthinkable to beg for a priority evacuation as it would be to ask for an old man's seat on the tram. The families of rig workers and shipping tycoons wait side by side for their tickets to be called, for their bodies to be processed into coldsleep SMILE pods and loaded by the thousands, all equally silent, equally delicate, equally helpless.

Mia gets a chill. She doesn't know why she's so certain that it's over now, this calm enlightened goodness, this collective decency. But she is.

"You're scared?" David asks quietly.

"Not scared for myself. For… everything. For what we've built."

"We built it well," David assures her. "This is when we'll be our best."

<|endoftext|>

Faces Like Shields

Mia van der Venne is more than 200 years old. Change comes faster, these days, and you live to see more of it. Changes like Ismail being allowed to pray not in the real direction of Mecca but in the direction Mecca would be if it were transposed from Earth to Titan. Changes like the rise and fall and rise again of the Bray cult of personality. Like the new worlds the Traveler opens up to humanity.

And changes like the woman who calls herself Crown Six.

She has the compact, endomorphic build of someone's mom, a shape that would be disarmingly ordinary if it were not rearmed by glowing eyes, empty sunken cheeks, a thickly armored jaw, and a bare scalp studded with needled sensors. The petrol stink of Titan's atmosphere washes off her, mingled with the clean astringent bite of air lock spray. Like all Exos, she was once a person—someone who gave up her flesh for the tenuous immortality of a war body. Mia, unfairly, thinks she looks like an angry mannequin.

"Welcome to New Pacific Arcology," Mia says. Far beneath them, the lights of residential stacks dim and flicker out as people report to their podding stations. Information kiosks flare up in distant blue, flashing directions to the lost. A vacuum robot scurries along the catwalk behind them.

"Administrator van der Venne," the woman says, with careful consideration, "thank you for your welcome." She turns back to collect some item of equipment. An etiquette flash blinks in the air beside her, totally unpersonalized: it is just the standard warning against substrate chauvinism.

"Hi, Morgan," David Korosec says, with a softness Mia has never heard before, a softness not meant for her ears. "Are you happier?"

It is as if he has waited a long, long time to ask that.

Crown Six looks up in very human surprise. "David," she says, guardedly. "Tell me you're not still—"

"An ethicist? Sorry, Morgan. Still me."

"Then I'm not speaking to you," the Exo says and turns to Mia. "Administrator van der Venne, I'm here under SOLSECCENT's special security protocol for extreme crisis. I must ask for your compliance and all possible assistance with our mission."

An eight-legged crate walks out of the air lock behind her, shepherded by two more silent Exos. The beast of burden proffers body armor and firearms: not just bliss rifles or restraint spiders, but actual, lethal, bullet-shooting guns.

"No," Mia says, with more heat than she intends, but not more than she feels. "I won't allow you inside with deadly weapons. This is a legally autonomous settlement, chartered under—"

Morgan points a bladed hand at her. The symbolic suggestion of violence alone is shocking enough to cut Mia's sentence short. "Administrator van der Venne, there is a CARRHAE WHITE emergency in effect. As an AI-COM operative, I have the right to use force where and how I see fit. So, if you don't get me where I need to go and help me remove any obstacles to my goal, I will realign you with my mission parameters." She cocks her head. It's so human. "Am I clear?"

"Are you threatening to shoot me?" Mia stares at the Exo woman in disbelief. She hasn't seen a gun in nearly 50 years, and now they are not only coming into her habitat, but they're also pointed at her.

"I won't shoot you." The needles of Morgan's scalp glitter. "But I will tell you that I could, if I found it necessary."

"This is wrong!" David barks. "I know you, Morgan. You believe in sacrosanct human will, and the primacy of informed individual agency, and the need for powerful actors to obtain consent. The person I knew would never—"

"The person you knew might have had time for this conversation," Morgan says, with vicious remove. The pronoun dance suggests shared personal history that Mia has no business asking after or caring about. "I don't. Administrator, my team will now proceed to Shanice Pell's lab to secure our objective. If you're with me, maybe it gets done faster. If not, maybe it gets done messier. Your choice."

Of course. Of course it's about Shanice Pell. Who else?

A silent alarm throbs in Mia's sensorium, like a snake coiling around her wrist. Down in the residential blocks, one of her citizens has lifted one too many boxes and manifested presymptoms of a heart attack. EMTs are on the way, so it probably won't be the day's first death. Probably. Life burns so easily. It's her job to stand up to those who forget that.

"I'll escort you to the lab," she says. "May I assume that you're interested in containing some data at the Pell lab? Should I close our airspace? We are in the middle of—"

"You'll do nothing," Morgan says, confidently but incorrectly. "I'm killing all your satellite uplinks except for text and basic flight telemetry."

"Who ordered this?" Mia demands. "On what grounds can SOLSEC impose some high-handed protocol on my Arcology?"

Morgan does not make the obvious correction: not who ordered this, but what.

<|endoftext|>

Kalki's Burning Sword, Part I

The beam kisses the rising shuttle and cuts through it, like a wire through a block of butter, as if the ship and everyone inside were as thin as the hydrocarbon sleet. Thunder booms, louder than Earth's, through heavy nitromethane air.

Mia watches the debris strike the smooth black ocean and sink. She can't breathe. There is something like a whittled mulberry branch stuck in her throat.

"Do you realize this is your fault?" Morgan-2 groans, inviting no dispute about whether it is in fact Mia van der Venne's fault (yes, in a complicated way) but, rather, asking her if she accepts it.

Do you see, Mia? Do you see how you killed them?

It was a good plan, she'd thought. Smuggling Shanice Pell out on the evacuation ships was the right thing to do. Because it put Shanice Pell's personal autonomy above the needs of any enigmatic emergency protocol. Because it gave Shanice a choice about what to do with her data, instead of yielding that choice to Morgan and her Exos.

"Why?" David Korosec whispers. "Morgan, you murdered all those people… why?!"

It should've worked. Mia never betrayed herself to the Exos' electronic warfare with a telltale signal. She didn't warn Pell with a crude mechanical sign, like a blinking light or a gushing faucet, that a watching AI might detect. She hid her alarm in the social chaos of the Arcology's evacuation: simply by failing to renew a hold order, she allowed one of her security frames to detain a Clovis Bray executive in Dome 2. The Clovis corporate embassy sent a team to unsnarl the situation, and that unexpected Clovis sortie triggered Shanice Pell's sentinel programs and kicked off her red-alert evacuation protocol. She was already evacuating, just like everyone else, but now she believed (correctly) that someone was after her.

Shanice and her lab ran before Morgan's Exos could reach them. Ran with the data Morgan came to silence.

The probe. This must be about the Pell deep-space probe. That "demonstration of self-sufficiency" that caused such vicious, quiet controversy. What did it find?

When Morgan-2's network senses warned her of Pell's flight, Mia thought she'd won. Saved the radically self-sufficient scientist from the big bad Warmind and its paranoid goons.

But Morgan-2 had just covered her glowing eyes. "Administrator. Didn't you understand that I was the humane option? Didn't you think?"

And down from the sky, swift and stealthy as the Warsat that fired it, came the invisible discharge of an X-ray laser to light the shuttle's propellant like a lantern. The beam path was hot-white, straight as poured silver, collapsing instantly: a crash of pure-tone thunder as the tunnel of burnt air closes in on itself. And the shuttle opening like a ghastly blossom, the shape of a thing going upward very quickly, no longer in one piece.

"Oh, no," Mia had gasped, not understanding at first: Was it an accident? Had the phantom disaster finally arrived on Titan and struck its first blow? This was the age of life, and governments did not, ever, use force against human beings. There were always alternatives. Every soul sacred. Every evil treatable.

Then she understood what the Warmind had done.

<|endoftext|>

Kalki's Burning Sword, Part II

Now she kneels trembling on the carpet outside Pell's abandoned lab as Morgan-2 shouts in grief and rage. "I didn't want this. Do you understand? I came here so she wouldn't have to die!"

"Then you should've TOLD ME!" Mia screams, and that mulberry rod shoved down her throat feels like it's punched through her heart.

"Would you have believed me?" Now Morgan's voice is machine-flat. "I showed you our weapons. I told you we were prepared to kill."

But this! An entire shuttle—all those people… Those poor, poor people…

"I know what this means," David Korosec pronounces. He's gotten down to his knees beside Mia, but he won't reach out, won't touch her without consent. "A Warmind fired that weapon. Warminds don't take human life… unless they're in the TWILIGHT EXIGENT moral territory."

"What does that mean?" Mia demands, wanting, needing, some kind of sense.

"It means," Morgan-2 says, mercilessly, "that all human beings are assumed dead without protective action. The Warminds are now acting to maximize survival, not to minimize harm. Death is cheap, the garden's on fire, and it's a race to save whatever we can."

That's not sense. Mia can't make sense of that at all.

"What if they're wrong?" David gets to his feet. "Morgan, they just murdered a ship full of innocent people to contain this data. Is the secret worth it? What if they're wrong?!"

"They can't be wrong. They're too smart."

"Oh, no you don't, you haven't forgotten that much!" He comes at Morgan, fearless in his authority for all his physical powerlessness. "You know intelligence is semiorthogonal to morality! The Warminds obey human stricture, because we built them to live in our tiny patch of the moral landscape. Goodness is not an inevitable absolute. They can be smart without being right!"

Morgan-2's shoulders flex in a shrug as cold and silent as the light on Titan. Most of the sun's light does not survive to reach this place. "What do you want from me, David?"

He is almost comically taller than her. "I want to see the data. There are still copies here, aren't there? In the Pell lab? I want to know for certain that it HAD to be contained."

"It's too dangerous. It came from inside the—" Morgan cuts herself off with very human haste. "It's too risky."

"You know what I am." Now he is begging her. "You know what I do, Morgan—studying human morality, rendering it elegant and explicit and complete, so that we can explain ourselves to new life we meet. You know I can be sure. Morgan, please. For the sake of our friendsh—"

Mia does not get to hear the rest of this conversation, because a message explodes into her sensorium with such demanding totality it numbs her fingers.

"BOSS!" Ismail Barat shouts. "WE'RE ACCELERATING!"

What? Mia conjures up telemetry from Titan's satellite halo. What's accelerating?

She calls for radar data, a map of Titan's surface. And then she sees it.

Her moon is squashing.

Titan is deforming from a spheroid into an egg. Something out there is pulling on Titan—a hand with a force greater than Saturn's entire mass. And the moon is answering the only way it can, by bulging outward: already fifteen meters, still growing.

The pull will cause strain, tremors, tides. And when that pull lets go, there will be a wave to make Ziusudra and Atrahasis and Noah and Manu and Deucalion cower in fear. Bergelmir might have navigated a deluge of blood, but not even he had to sail on liquid methane.

Nor reckon with the apocalyptic tidal forces of a second ocean, fourteen times as vast as Earth's oceans combined, buried 50 kilometers below the surface.

<|endoftext|>

SUNDOWN DISTRESS

Mayday, Mayday, Mayday. All circum-Saturn stations monitoring GUARD, this is New Pacific Arcology, declaring a SUNDOWN loss of habitability event. We have 2.9 million souls aboard. We repeat, Titan is no longer safe for human life.

We are experiencing massive tidal forces of unknown origin. Our physics cluster detects mass growl, phaeton strikes, and sterile neutrino scattering. Possible origins include a compact dark matter object, a lambda-field influence, or a polarized gravity device.

Satellite lidar confirms a tidal bulge of 40 meters—400, repeat, 400 percent of ordinary tidal deformation and growing. We anticipate massive cryoseismic activity as the tidal effect recedes. Total crustal reflex will trigger a multiple hypocenter icequake swarm. Surface effects catastrophic.

We are attempting to decouple tidal anchors and loosen the arcology substructure. Blue-water vessels are now transporting frozen citizens to lifters. We require all available ships with interplanetary capability to receive refugees. Contact New Pacific Traffic Control on approach.

Be advised that we have no contact with any circum-Saturn ships or stations, and we are transmitting in the blind.

This message will now repeat.

Mayday, Mayday, Mayday. All circum-Saturn stations monitoring GUARD, this is New Pacific Arcology, declaring a SUNDOWN loss of habitability event. We have 2.9 million souls aboard. We repeat, Titan is no longer safe for human life.

<|endoftext|>

The Water Sun, Part I

Maury Yamashita dives through bad water.

It's not water at all, but that's what the dolphins have nicknamed it—bad ocean—because it sucks to swim in it. At nearly -200 degrees Celsius, the methane is so viciously frigid that vacuum, the acme of pure cold, is actually keeping Maury warm: he wears a softsuit stuffed with microscopic layers of vacuum, packed in turn with crystalline nanostructures that prevent even light from crossing the gaps. This means the chill cannot get in… and his body heat cannot get out.

So, he is now baking to death in an ocean as cold as Dante's ninth. Of course, he could vent heat; the suit allows that. But the spreading warmth will force nitrogen out of the methane-ethane ocean, and the bubbles will slow him down. This is unacceptable for a lot of reasons, one of which is that he's already too slow. Liquid methane is about half as dense as water, so his huge fins and hissing thrusters struggle to push against it.

Another reason is that he will die if he can't get back inside in time.

"Maury," his sensorium whispers. He's turned the volume way down. "Come back. This isn't worth your life."

Sorry, Mia, he thinks. It has to be worth my life, or I'm worth more than them, and I know I'm not. I put them there. It's my job to let them out.

He's always loved the stupid little swarmers.

Dome 2's understructure crouches around him, a maze of ultralight support struts and twisting bundles of cable. The shadow of a behemoth supercarrier blocks the dim sunlight above: he feels the thin howl of the ship's thrusters, fighting to move out of mooring at Dome 2 and haul another load of frozen people to an evacuation lifter. If Maury looks down, his lights illuminate a dusty wash of azotosomic plankton, primitive methane life. If he looks back to Dome 1, he can barely see the sleekly fat form of the Duiker, the water-ocean research submarine, docked to the arcology's underside. E. F. Babatunde is in there now, probably begging someone to tell them what's happening.

He heads down. His dolphins are already safe in open water. He has to get the swarmers out of their research pen.

"Tidal anchors decoupled," Xiana McCaig reports. "Dome 1 substructure is as loose as I can make it. Dome 2 is showing temperature faults, but I've got drones on the way. Maury, please. We have no idea what'll happen when the quake hits. Get back in here!"

"I'll be back in a few," he promises. "I'm just going to cut the research pen open so the swarmers can get free—"

"Oh, Allah," Ismail Barat whispers. "It's gone."

"What's gone?" Mia demands.

"The tidal pull. The ghost mass. It just… left. The moon is collapsing back to spheroid shape. I'm detecting primary waves in the subsurface ocean—it's a quake. It's a quake! Maury, get away from the substructure! Get clear!"

Maury imagines 60-plus meters of bulging moon, Titan's mass hauled up into a teardrop pointed at the sky—suddenly released. Smashing and scraping and grinding back into equilibrium. Cracks in the ice spewing plumes of water and ammonia. Continent-sized shelves slamming and rebounding and calving like bergs. The whole vast inner ocean sloshing back into its shape.

"The swarmers," he says, and he jettisons his buoyancy tanks.

Without that lift he is so much denser than the bad water around him that he plunges like a skydiver toward the cross brace below, where the swarmer pen is anchored. Titan's gravity may be gentle, but even gentle acceleration adds up. He hits hard, and the spinmetal surface blasts the air out of his lungs. He gasps and gags. Scrabbles for purchase before he slides off and falls into the abyss. He's going over—no! No! He is not going over! He will not fall!

<|endoftext|>

The Water Sun, Part II

The gecko-grip surfaces on his forearms catch—and hold.

"Whew," he says, and he has never meant anything so inane so deeply.

The swarmers seethe and pulsate in the perforated plastic sac. Not Titan's highest life, nor its lowest, they hive across the icy sea-bottom in enormous braided patterns that speak to Maury of intelligence. Not individually—not even at the hive level—but some kind of vast concert, conducted, perhaps, by leviathans down beneath the ice shell, communicating across the barrier by magnetic whisper that the swarmers receive via organic SQUIDs. An ecology spanning methane life and water-ammonia life. Why? How?

Maury wants so badly to know. But if his curiosity brought the swarmers here, only for them to be caught in the quake, dashed apart against the arcology struts, he'll never forgive himself.

He should've set up a remote release, but he was complacent. He gets a fistful of the pen's smart plastic surface and fires the "disintegrate" signal through his glove. The polymer shreds and the swarmers scatter, their tiny bodies siphoning liquid methane as they pump down and away. Safe. Safe. "I made it!" he calls, jubilantly. "On my way back up!"

The quake hits.

A hundred and fifty meters below, the icy basis of Kraken Mare rolls like liquid. The arcologies answer the low geological wail with a cacophony of groans and shrieks, joints flexing, tethers snapping taut, substructures soaking up unthinkable mechanical energy, trying to keep anything from—

Breaking.

Something must've frozen hard down in Dome 2's substructure. Something must've grown brittle. The snap is almost spinal. The smashed hulk of a drone tumbles past Maury as he tries to scull backward, away from the superdense arm of plasteel dropping like a guillotine through all-too-thin methane to strike him in the—

An absence.

He's on the ice seafloor, two hundred and forty meters down. Someone's shouting in his ear. It's Mia. She's always there in an emergency. Always there for her team. "Maury! Maury, you're awake! Respond if able!"

His sensorium tells him he's been in a medical coma while cytomachines fight to save his life. Massive blunt trauma. Concussion. The suit, as ever, tougher than the human being inside. Dome 2 has toppled partially; it's leaning toward the sea on damaged substructure. He should go help…

"Maury," Mia says, in a level voice he does not recognize. He's never heard her scared before. "Listen to me. The quake is over. But a shelf of ice collapsed into Kraken Mare. The displacement wave is coming in now and you won't be safe on the bottom. You must reach the surface and get above wave level. That will be at least 50 meters."

Surface? Wave? About 50 meters? Maury cues a blast of nootrope to clean up his thinking and grunts aloud in shock. He gets it. Oh, he gets it now, he has to RUN. "I understand. I've lost my buoyancy. Ascending on thrusters."

He makes it to the surface. He's up there in plenty of time. He can even see Dome 1, still intact, though a lot of the surrounding rigging is damaged. One of the creepy Exo soldiers stands outside, beckoning to him with a laser dazzle, guiding him in.

Maury opens his suit wings to their full membranous span. A single mighty stroke of paramuscle cups the air and hauls him up out of the sea. He's aloft! Titan air is thick, and Titan gravity is light, and like a huge bat he can fly. He puts his head down and starts building altitude, headed towards the beckoning Exo.

The Exo's laser blinks code at him. GO WITH GOD, YOU POOR—

Maury looks back.

First, he sees the supercarrier, tragically buoyant, tragically light, built for seas with gentle one-meter tides but now riding the greatest wave Titan has ever seen, directly into Dome 2's crippled understructure. In 152 kilopascals of air pressure, the pandemonium sound of the collision has the gut-mulching power of a rocket booster.

The entire arcology collapses down onto the ship, into the sea.

Then he blinks past the devastation and recognizes the sheer scale, the utter speed, the complete imminence of that unthinkable methane wave coming down at him.

"Oh, man," he says.

<|endoftext|>

I.I: Of Tattered Blood and Broken Bone

MALKANTH'S BLASPHEMOUS DESIRE

"The bloodline is severed.
"The remaining heirs would argue otherwise.
"Their blood ties and bone-bond to the Last King of the Osmium Court mark them as candidates for Ascension, but such is not granted freely. All evolution is forced, and the sword logic will not rest idle as spoiled children claw for purchase at the vacant thrones of vanquished Kings and Princes.
"I see them as they are.
"Liars.
"Pretenders.
"As their King.
"As his Prince.
"The whole of the Court's lineage is unworthy. History would say otherwise. But history is not truth.
"That I alone see the flaw in our future is a crime for which all others shall be punished."

<|endoftext|>

I.II: Of Tattered Blood and Broken Bone

AKRAZUL'S IMPOTENT RAGE

"There are none.
"Their strength is a shade of that required by the sword logic's demand for blood and pain.
"They, as all, must be made to suffer for their worth to be evident, but they fear such ends.
"I am no Inquisitor, by right or title.
"Yet, I see clearly, through the sullied haze of their ambitions.
"They speak of honor and nobility.
"They have none.
"They crave power. Not truth.
"They seek evolution but cannot comprehend its price, or meaning.
"They want, only because they want—these heathen 'saviors' forewarned in prophecy.
"Come from the depths to feast upon those weakened by our loss and our struggle against enemies more brutal than time.
"I fear the path you court, sister, is a rebuke of more than tradition.
"You challenge Understandings mapped upon flesh, bone, and the very essence of centuries beyond knowing.
"You seek to unmake the logic, for selfish gain.
"Such is a treasonous affront.
"Others have tried.
"Others have been held to account for such callous sin.
"Yet, I look upon the lustful offspring of our once-King, and I see cowards.
"I see our end—written in greed.
"The aftermath of a feeble reign.
"Such is not how I would see us fall.
"Ridden to oblivion by spoiled heirs and would-be heroes born of the desperate throngs who only now, after the battles have been fought and our war lost, find their courage… here in the wake of our undoing."

<|endoftext|>

I.III: Of Tattered Blood and Broken Bone

AZAVATH'S EAGER EMBRACE

"You, of us all, have suffered and survived, brother.
"To many, your severing is a mark of shame.
"To many, you should have fallen to dust before returning to the depths in defeat.
"My ire, as echoed by my Song, would challenge these claims.
"Those who demean you…
"Akrazul, the Severed Knight.
"Akrazul, the Shamed.
"The Weak.
"The Undone.
"They are one and the same with those who never dared face the undying Light.
"They are the enemies of our promised morrow.
"Those who watched from the shadows while your bone shattered and your limb was cast into the hollowed dark beneath this Moon's scarred surface.
"I too see the sin in our dear sister's words.
"More so in her intention.
"But I also see a pride in all we were meant to be—all we were promised.
"Why, then, give thanks to 'heirs' come to offer salvation, when such a gift is beyond their giving?
"I am with you, dear sister.
"I am with you, dear brother.
"Let us each suffer to ensure the path—till dust or ash or Gods standing high upon eternity, burdened by our sacrifice.
"For are we not worthy?
"If not by ancestral right, then as those wretched few who would never seek power, but to keep its disease from the hands of the corrupt?"

<|endoftext|>

I.IV: Of Tattered Blood and Broken Bone

MALKANTH'S DEADLY PROMISE

"Then it is set.
"The logic will never find purchase among the unworthy.
"And be not unclear, though we revile those we seek to challenge, we are truly their kin.
"If not by marrow's tie nor blooded divinity…
"Then by our own failings—if not of a kind equal to their transgressions.
"Yet, there is honor in the knowing…
"We alone recognize our lack of worth and thus stand above those who seek Ascension ignorant of their truest reflection…
"Ignorant of the logic's base demand.
"But I say now, with an unfettered mind…
"The sword logic is not all.
"And the logic can be subverted—must be subverted.
"I have studied paths both honored and depraved—the might of Oryx, the strength and cunning of his sisters, the folly of Crota's pride, and the necromantic sin of the unfavored.
"I have long since stolen knowledge from the World's Grave—known texts and secret learnings.
"I have prepared for this day—for the time when reliance on the rule of might—the survival of the fittest—would prove to be misguided.
"Our understanding of its meaning… flawed and open to manipulations by those willing to find strength—purpose—in heresy.
"I say, we are they—the sinners, the heretics…
"I say… let us sin.
"Let us be the liars and conspirators whose self-made truth topples stagnant, uninspired belief and births a new dynasty.
"Dearest Akrazul.
"Dearest Azavath.
"Brother.
"Sister.
"Let us reap the just affliction of our suffering's reward.
"We shall claim the burden of dominion and endure the pains of such tremendous weight.
"Just as all others will endure, as final, unwelcome recompense, the harsh realities of their end."

<|endoftext|>

II: An Audience with Slaughter

AS BELOW…

In the circle in the pit at the bottom of damnation's well, a gathering of brutalists vies for a seat upon an eternal throne.

A thousand warriors of dust and ruin clamor for the ritual beginning to another slaughter.

AS ABOVE…

Would-be puppet masters watch with keen eyes from the crimson towers that hang from the jagged walls of the Necropolis's hallowed and hollowed ground. They of cunning thought and grand design who lack the brute strength to take the sword logic's gift by force. They who consider themselves the shadowed architects of empires. They who build their legacy upon the trade of secrets, the gossip of ages, and the sowing of lies—words their weapons; cutting as any blade.

Among the murmuring lords of wicked tongues, tainted royalty glides to the fore.

Sisters of the anti-mercy. Sisters of doom. The Daughters of Crota—Daughters of the Worldbreaker. The offspring of destruction, direct heirs to the abandoned throne, yet removed from the Pit's calling. The same privileged manipulators whose existence Malkanth and her siblings wish to challenge—wish to destroy.

The Daughters have come to judge those who dare fight for claim.

They seek a warrior fit to raze the celestial heavens that mar the ebon expanse. Surely one must walk amongst the countless descendants of their father's father.

Besurith whispers her doubts. Seconded by Voshyr.

Kinox remains silent, contemplating their station and the depths from which they must ascend if the Swarm is ever to reclaim its own destiny.

Hashladûn, the eldest, the Inundated, narrows her glare. Her sisters fall silent.

The slaughter is set to begin.

<|endoftext|>

III: Ritualistic Circle Pit

AS BELOW…

Since the Great Osmium King's end, countless champions have been scattered to the winds in search of the sword logic's promised rewards.

Immeasurable pain.

Immeasurable suffering.

Such that, this deep—far below the broken lunar surface where no Light has ever blasphemed—the rugged cavern walls are said to host the afterbirth of ceaseless torment.

Here, spectral shadows haunt the passageways through the dark, each skittering shape the mindless, ethereal prison of a greater being cast low. Or so prophecy dictates…

"Those marked as unworthy shall ever be lost in the depths of their own ambition—trapped between, in such form as ambition first took hold." —11th Truth, Book of Damnation

Still, at the risk of final death or hateful damnation, the hordes gather, intent on the destruction of all who stand in defiance of their individual ambitions.

Among them, proud Zulmak flexes dried sinew beneath the heavy calcified growth of his outer shell—armor earned in battle, through pain.

Zulmak has now stood twice, after all others have fallen.

He has gained allies and enemies from his victories—both in the circle and beyond.

After his second triumph, other battles followed beyond the view of the rabid throng.

First, an Acolyte took aim from the shadows—a coward sent by unnamed admirers to end Zulmak's march toward godhood.

The weak thing's spine shattered beneath Zulmak's heel.

Then, later… the Thrall—a wave of mindless nothings with chittering jaw and razored talon. Another gift from secret conspirators.

Their dust now hangs in pouches at Zulmak's waist—a delicacy to be enjoyed in the quiet, once the echoes of his victims in the Pit have faded and the roars of celebration have hushed.
Zulmak casts his gaze across the horde lined at the circle's edge.

Hundreds deep. All keen to shatter their brothers and sisters. All keen to stand triumphant, as Zulmak has.

He feels their eyes set upon him.

He is a target now—a known champion.

Many will come for him. They will swarm.

And they will meet their end at Zulmak's hand.

The ire rises. The energy of the Pit is thick, warm… angry.

There is no ceremony to mark the opening of the slaughter.

Those who dare join the fray simply gather until the tension reaches its breaking point.

Then the first sword will rise and fall, and the ground will begin to cake with a thickening mix of dust and blood.

AS ABOVE…

On high, Hashladûn watches as the first sword falls and the severing begins.

<|endoftext|>

IV: Blood Sport

AS BELOW…

Zulmak knows they will come for him.

Zulmak is ready.

The weight of his blade feels light in his grip—an extension of his will.

His cleaver cuts with little effort, slicing freely through the fragile bone of some fool with grand designs beyond his station—an Acolyte whose meat and marrow splits cleanly, the dust of his being a cloud of thick gray as his body shatters and drops.

Just as quickly, more blades are on Zulmak.

He takes cuts but never staggers.

He grabs a charging Knight by the neck, sliding the point of his blade through his attacker's throat, then up and out through the shoulder. The green of the brawler's eyes flickers and is gone, his body no longer a vessel. Zulmak tightens his grasp around the dead thing's neck and swings high, lifting the carcass as if it were a shield to block another blow.

His grip closes like a vice, and the dead Knight's body hits the ground. He still holds the spine tight, the once-living head now a weapon. Bone meets bone as Zulmak's necrotic bludgeon collides with the skull of an attacker. Two heads splinter. Another enemy falls.

A blade enters Zulmak's back, slipping past his spine and catching in his ribs.

AS ABOVE…

Hashladûn is disappointed.

She has grown tired of the façade of the slaughter.

None are worthy of the sword logic.

Zulmak may be impressive. But he is no Crota. He is no Oryx. And he will fall.

Besurith whispers.

And the sisters turn to leave.

The congregation on high all follow—their crimson temples emptied—leaving none to witness the assured disappointment in the Pit below.

<|endoftext|>

V: A Sinister Plot

Across the Pit, three siblings watch from the shadows.

Malkanth smiles.

Hashladûn and her siblings have taken their leave, their disgust evident.

They too have found cause to doubt the logic.

The politics of the self-appointed puppet masters will distract from the continuing ritual.

But, in their dismissal, the high-seated neglect a simple, powerful fact…

The horde will not forsake tradition so easily. They are born of it. Bred within the comfort of its certainty.

The pampered elite have forgotten the power of belief.

The sword logic is all to the fool masses.

That truth will be the seed from which Malkanth grows her subversion.

For even as the cowards above turn their back on the Pit, a boon is granted to sinister Malkanth's grand aspirations.

Her smile widens.

"Zulmak is our instrument of destruction.
"He is that which will shatter the logic.
"He is that which will break the cycle and prove the lie of the Court and its King, they who led us to ruin here in this dead system on this dead orb.
"He is brave and fearsome, and there exists a time when he will have been great—sure to join the pantheons upon which future generations will build their legends.
"But for the Swarm to see its future stretch beyond eternity, he will ever be a catalyst for all to come, and nothing more.
"Are you ready, sister?"

"I am, ever and truly. Let my sacrifice carve our path. Let my unmaking be our salvation."

"And, brother?"

"To be reborn is a gift—one I cannot repay. In return, I offer only vengeance, dear sister. And for your sacrifice? A place in an infinite graveyard, built where stars once dared to shine."

<|endoftext|>

VI: Blood Sport

The congregation has departed.

Zulmak, impaled by a lesser blade, has failed.

The congregation is foolhardy.

Zulmak spins.

Lodged in his flesh, the blade snaps, its wielder now weaponless but for an edgeless grip.

Zulmak crushes the assailant with a single, mighty blow, but the damage is done.

The horde piles on, weighing him down. Cutting. Slicing.

The would-be champion is swallowed by the mass.

Across the Pit, the attention of the combatants shifts. They turn on each other. There is no more champion, so a new champion must claim victory. The sword logic demands it.

Beneath the mound of writhing bone and claw, those who rushed Zulmak poke and prod, killing all beneath their weight.

Then movement. And a terrible scream.

The heap quakes and pulses.

Then, a powerful thrust. Bodies fly, and an angry shape stomps forth.

Zulmak, impaled a dozen times, perhaps more—decorated in blade and hilt—roars.

All eyes fall upon him.

He slumps, breathes heavily, then stands.

The heap continues to writhe.

Zulmak climbs its uneven slope, crushing the weak underfoot.

Reaching the bony peak of bodies living and dead, the wounded champion issues a challenge—a gut-born, ragged battle cry.

Zulmak, the Impaled.
Zulmak, the Unfelled.
Zulmak, the Destroyer.

The horde charges.

Clambering to reach him, high above the pile.

And when they do, they offer themselves, one after another, to his devastating embrace—sacrificing themselves to the champion, to the logic.

They are not worthy.

But maybe—maybe—Zulmak is.

<|endoftext|>

VII: The Severed and the Unmade

AKRAZUL'S LAMENT

"I am lesser of being and mind, sister.
"Your unmaking shall see me whole.
"My stolen limb, lost to the Light-born in defense of our Taken King's futile reign, has made me a pariah.
"The dishonor of my failings has cast upon us an unwavering shame that spreads like disease, tainting not only my broken self but you and dearest Malkanth alike. I am plague. I am withering disregard.
"Yet, here… in your selfless gift, I find new purpose.
"In your flesh and bone, I will find myself once again.
"In that discovery, I will forever remember you.
"As you will be my vessel on this physical plane. I will be the vessel for your essence—the very core of your will shall live on in me… eternal."

AZAVATH'S PRIDE

"Your words are a joy, brother.
"The last I shall have.
"But know that such pleasures are insignificant when judged against my hatred… my anger.
"I choose my unmaking only because I know the power of your rage, tamed since your severing, but seething below the surface of your charcoal heart.
"I give freely of myself, as did the lesser of the Pit when they offered themselves as waves to be broken against the jagged shore of Zulmak's blade.
"I do so, because I see clearly the path we etch. Its purpose born of heresy, but pure—like your rage.
"My sole regret is that I will not see your fury manifest. That I will not feel these hands inflict such punishment upon the unworthy—upon existence.
"You will make a grand monarch, brother. Through me…
"In my name, writ across the expanse—Azavath, the Suffer Queen of an Ever-Rising Swarm.
"In my husk, the armored vessel of the one I love, my sweet, vengeful Akrazul… my broken prince no more."

<|endoftext|>

VIII: A Sacrifice of Self

Akrazul rests motionless on the altar.

Such wicked craft as the Inquisition of Self is a science beyond his understanding—stolen by his sister from forbidden lessons in ancient, prohibited texts.

Few have earned the knowledge required to navigate the dissection of a living essence.

Fewer still can excise the layers of self such that the vessel remains a viable cage for another's being.

Malkanth, the Deceiver has spent a lifetime educating herself in the ways of illicit knowledge, ever curious to explore the cracks between Understandings, in the dark recesses of imagination where impossibilities dwell.

She has assured her brother that his torment will be swift compared to their sister's.

Akrazul finds little comfort in her words and braces for the screams to come, knowing the only way forward rests on the other side of his beloved Azavath's unmaking.

The siblings share a silence. To most, their coming sins would be treason worthy of erasure. But there is no turning back.

Malkanth turns to her brother, knowing he is noble and brave, knowing he will be tempted to intervene once Azavath's cries echo through the vaulted hollows of the abandoned cathedral where they hide themselves from prying eyes.

Akrazul says nothing.

Still, Malkanth holds a finger to her cracked lips and shakes her head slowly.

Akrazul looks to his right arm—severed midbicep, the nub a rough, calcified mass—then back at Malkanth before closing his eyes.

Malkanth smiles as her brother rests calmly, ready to play his part.

She turns to Azavath, pinned to her altar with thick bolts through her wrists and ankles. The pain will be such that she will struggle—fight against the intrusion as her mind and essence are frayed and her body hollowed of life that it may serve another.

Azavath thinks of her brother and the hells he will unleash once whole.

A whisper catches her ear as she closes her eyes.

She listens to faint words of praise as Malkanth delivers the first cut.

<|endoftext|>

IX.I: The Unmaking

SING, O SISTER… OF DEATH AND ITS MANY GIFTS

From the first, there has been war.

Wars of the self. Wars of conquest. Wars of desperation. Wars of greed.

From war, death.

From death, an end.

From endings, beginnings.

One such is now sung in the key of pain—Azavath's truth, the all of her, torn free with a surgeon's grace.

Malkanth's ears bleed as her sister's unmaking reveals her being.

In the echoes of Azavath's screams, ancient histories reveal themselves…

SONG OF LIFE

The Song was not always a corruption. It began as a gift, stolen from the Gardener. In efforts to understand the unknowable realities of the orb's incredible gifts, a signal was found—a repeating tune, the Song of Creation. Its frequencies were heard across the stars, wherever life's promise took hold. Some among the Ammonites worshipped it. Some among the Hive did the same. Still others sought to understand it that they might cage it, that they might control it—for to control life is to control death. Such ambition was not new; such ambition was as old as understanding. The melody was captured and studied. The frequencies replicated.

But the orb's mysteries were not so easily brought to light. The Song, for all its beauty, did not alone grant life. It was theorized that the Song was not a song at all, but many. That within its refrain, untold rhythms spoke their own truths, free and clear of the whole.

Centuries passed. The Song remained untamed. Life moved on.

SONG OF DEATH

The Choir formed in celebration of the Song. Performances marked the passage of seasons. But the Song's lie eventually began to corrupt the spirit of those who heard its tune. The melody was a reminder. The orb was a catalyst. And the Song was of the orb. Yet, those who embraced the Song were merely instruments and nothing more. Life remained beyond their grasp, while they remained ever in death's. Those of the Choir had given all of themselves. All was not enough.

The First Conductor was assassinated by one who sang an Aria of her own making. She, whose name has been stricken, had found notes hidden in the frequencies. Reversed and mirrored in pitch, she weaved them together and sang her beautiful abomination, until the Conductor wept and bled and screamed and fell. The Stricken fled, fearful of her crime. But others found promise anew in her art. The Stricken was captured and subjected to inquisition so that her song might be understood. This was before Understandings—before most things—when the first notes of a new Song were written.

<|endoftext|>

IX.II: The Unmaking

IN THESE NOTES, BEAUTIFUL OBLIVION

The war had raged for centuries. One of many. Just another. As irrelevant as the next. The stories of the Choir and their Deathsong were thought to be nothing more than folklore—wholly untrue at best, vastly exaggerated at worst… They were demons who'd sought life's gift, only to corrupt its beauty.

The homeworld of a species no longer on record—erased from the World's Grave, and thus from memory, as punishment for their transgressions—had kept itself safely removed from the battles being waged on the far side of their system. The location was safeguarded to protect the homeworld from the Hive's wrath. Its orbit was defended by an array of advanced offensive mechanics—cannons, mobile suits, mines, gravity slings, and more. They were protected. They were safe.

They never noticed the small crafts slip through their defenses. Twenty in total, landing in sequence at set coordinates along the planet's equator. Four trillions souls were about their days and nights as an unknown melody caught the breeze. It was beautiful—an ethereal gift and the end of all things. The Choir sang. Only twenty strong. As their voices grew in volume, the people started to scream. The planet's crust shifted and cracked. The seas roiled and spilled out over the land. The core shook. The ground shattered. Defenses scrambled. It was too late. Less than an hour after the Song began, the hidden homeworld of a forgotten people split in twain. These are the Song's powers, its gifts—anti-life and oblivion.

REBIRTH

Malkanth braces as the pain of her sister's screams threatens to turn her mind to liquid.

But she is strong.

And almost finished.

Azavath's being was tied intimately to her purpose—to learn the Song, perfect her notes, write her own Aria, and become death. That she held so tightly to legends of the Song's true power surprised Malkanth.

Even Ir Yût, one of the Crota's most cherished, had long since given up on rebuilding the Choir, yet Azavath was driven by this desire.

Malkanth feels pride well up.

Her sister, like herself, like their brother—all lesser in the eyes of those of purer bone—still nurtured ambitions beyond the festering cowardice of those who chose politics over action.

The sword logic had failed them, but they would not fail the Swarm.

Malkanth makes her final cut.

Azavath's roar shreds her throat and she falls silent, her body convulsing against the bolts, then becoming motionless.

For an instant, Malkanth holds her sister's essence. She wishes to say farewell. But just as quickly, the wisp that was her sister sparks and blinks out. Malkanth recoils.

Akrazul jumps from his altar, lunging at Malkanth.

Unflinching, Malkanth makes a single cut—deep, clean—tearing her brother's essence free from his physical self.

Akrazul's body crumples to the ground.

His soul is bigger and stronger than his sister's. Angrier. Meaner.

For an instant, Malkanth worries Azavath's vessel will be unfit to contain their brother's rage.

She shoves the Severed Knight's essence into Azavath's empty shell. Their sin is complete.

Now come the consequences.

<|endoftext|>

X: Faith in Bone

All have gathered.

The Pit is set for another slaughter.

Zulmak, the Unwavering has stood now for a third time.

Soon there will be none left to challenge him.

Soon, even the mighty who remain will defer to his sword, his power.

The congregation in their towers look down with great anticipation, their whispers ever more confident regarding the long-awaited end to the Swarm's search. A leader will rise… a new Prince to be shaped into a King.

Among the plotting throng, Hashladûn and her sisters remain silent.

They'd hoped for one to prove their worth and stake their claim, but the long, violent road to Zulmak's rise has seeded doubt. The Daughters hold little confidence in the Pit's ability to provide a victor truly born of the sword logic.

Zulmak has been impressive. But a King? Surely not, for whom has he faced? What competition had the Swarm mustered?

The aftermath of their father's murder and their grandfather's war has left them bereft of warriors of a caliber befitting royalty. The Light has seen it so. The hated Guardians came and inflicted their will upon the Hive—on the Moon and across the system. Now all that remains are scraps of a broken legacy.

To Hashladûn's mind, the Pit has proven a failure, regardless of Zulmak's triumph.

Further, the Daughters hold a secret belief that their forbearers have yet to fail the logic's call. Crota and Oryx were both defeated, yes, but not for the first time, and the Daughters still have faith that the King of Bone, the Taker of Will, the one and true King of Shapes, would never fall as far as to be lost in eternity.

If nothing else, the terror of their deeds—the memory of their conquests—lives on, like nightmares that may be awakened for the weak to truly know fear.

In that faith, the Daughters have made plans of their own, schemes to rekindle the greatness of their lineage, strategies born beyond the Pit.

Thus, deep beneath the Hellmouth, the heirs probe strange new possibilities from ancient discovery. Possibilities that will forgo the Pit to carve new paths and new Understandings through which the logic may yet prove their grandfather's authority.

However, those who would see their family unseated—those among whom they now stand—would mark their research as an affront. "The logic is the logic," they would say. "It is known, and it is good." But they lack imagination. The logic is not simply brute force. It is cunning and guile. It is survival. It is victory born of all that makes a King mighty.

In the Pit, Zulmak unleashes a battle cry. He is ready to be done with it all. He is ready to claim his crown.

Hashladûn considers him with disgust—he will never be a King, only ever a tool, blunt and brutal.

Should he be anointed as a champion of the Pit… Should he be crowned… the Daughters' plots will be threatened before they ever truly begin.

<|endoftext|>

XI: The Anti-Logic

AS ABOVE…

The Butcher Queen of the slaughter pits rises to the first balcony, chest heaving and eyes thin with focus, baptized in a clinging muck of bone-dust clotted thick with gore.

The congregation is unsure what to make of the display. Fear grips the craven court of the Necropolis.

All recognize Azavath, but she is no fighter, and her Song, though deadly, is far from the perfected pitch of others among the Broken Choir.

In each hand Azavath grips heavy cleavers, each weighted down by chunks of their victims. Below, a thousand corpses rest in pieces.

Brave Zulmak, he who came so very close to proving the logic, is spread wide, limbs removed, a cavity where his heart once beat.

The congregation asks Azavath to explain herself. She is no warrior, yet she fights like a conqueror. She has sought no claim, yet she has butchered a champion. The logic was almost met. What gives her the right to…?

The wicked scholar admonishing the 'Singer is split in two as one of Azavath's cleavers moves through him as if he were air.

The congregation panics as Azavath's rage is unleashed upon them.

They are not fighters.

They are plotters and manipulators and cowards.

They are everything Akrazul hates.

His new flesh—his new bone—allows him to manifest that hatred with swift, ruthless aggression. He thanks his sister and knows she would be proud of the blood he now sheds. She gave of herself that he might once again fight for all they believed in. On this high perch above the gore-filled pit, as the would-be advisers to a nonexistent King flail and fall, he kills for her, in her, as her. Tower after tower. Coward after coward. The bodies of the truly unworthy litter their blood temples. Screams echo through the expanse. Akrazul and Azavath are one, and in that joining, he is no longer the same—Akrazul no more, only his anger remains.

He considers that the slaughter of the puppet masters was not part of Malkanth's plan. She would be upset, but she no longer matters. Only vengeance matters. Only the ending of all who have failed the Swarm will sate his lust for carnage.

Among the congregation, the Daughters of Crota move to escape. But Besurith turns to her sisters, asking them to consider the moment. As the four edge beyond Azavath's warpath, they use the chaos to cover their own sins. Drawing daggers from their cloaks, Hashladûn, Besurith, Kinox, and Voshyr assassinate those they believe to be a threat to their schemes. Azavath will take the blame, and even if they are found out, there will be none left to challenge them.

AS BELOW…

A voice calls from the Pit.

Azavath pauses her massacre.

The voice is familiar, yet strange—other.

Below, Malkanth hovers over the broken bodies that cover the ground.

Azavath eyes her remaining victims and then turns to her sister.

Malkanth calls again.

"Brother… I have need of you."

Azavath leaves the high red perch, while the few remaining of the congregation flee, led by the Daughters, who feign distress.

In the Pit, Azavath considers Malkanth with care. The silent Deathsinger is confused, uncertain. Malkanth floats near, a gaping wound scarring her center, and whispers in her sister's ear…

"Our path is flawed. Your rage is a burden. Let me lift it from you…"

As Malkanth sings a familiar song in an unfamiliar pitch, Azavath's eyes widen with recognition. She tries to speak but cannot, her voice having been shredded in her unmaking.

The song continues, and Azavath bleeds, from ear and nose and eye and mouth. Her bone cracks, and her flesh bubbles until she breaks. Malkanth smiles once more. The Deceiver's plan is unfulfilled, but there is victory in stalled sword logic.

Hashladûn peers into the Pit as the last of the congregation make their escape. Zulmak is defeated, the new champion shattered. There are none to claim the logic's prize. The Daughters' plans to return their father to glory is no longer threatened.

And, as it was before it all began, all that remains are failed sword logic and the unknown promise of nightmares.

<|endoftext|>

VIII.X: Apocrypha

WHISPERS OF DISSENT

"Listen close, o Sister of the Song, o Singer of Despair, o Bringer of Death!
"Your Song is not yet sung.
"Your purpose, yet seized.
"Are you violence? Or are you Death?
"Two of a kind—mothers of fear—yet not one and the same.
"One is promise.
"The other certainty.
"But promises can remain unfulfilled, making liars even of those with the purest intent.
"Why then be anything but certain?"

The first of the whispers caught Azavath's ear in the instant before her sister made the first cut. Even as her agony filled the chamber, the hushed words echoed in her mind.

"Your sister is cunning and pure in her sacrilege.
"She sees the sword logic as broken, and her sight is clear and true.
"But the path you carve is folly.
"You seek destruction of the weak—annihilation of the cowards who would claim the vacant throne.
"There are none so Princely among you.
"No Kings.
"No Queens.
"And so you surrender yourself—a brave sacrifice meant to birth slaughter.
"What then, o Azavath, she of the Orphaned Swarm, she of the Broken Choir?
"Your husk will be remanded to an existence of violence—and nothing more.
"You give of yourself for a promise.
"Death shall follow.
"But only as collateral in the wake of the rage you and poor, misguided Malkanth seek to unleash.
"And that, child, is all your brother has to offer—his rage.
"You see it as earned.
"You are not wrong.
"Poor, foolish Akrazul. How long has he wallowed, lost to despair as the consequence of his own failings?
"Now, to sate his fury and see him whole of body and spirit, you would surrender what is yours—body, spirit, and worse…
"Your precious gift.
"Your Song."

<|endoftext|>

IX.X: Apocrypha

CONSEQUENCE OF SIN

"You love your sisters, but only one offers love in return. Yet, you would allow poor, sweet Azavath to give all of herself for you—to extinguish her essence that you might take her place. But her essence is not the whole of it. What of her gift? The melody that echoes in her soul is a rare treasure. So few are as purely connected to the pain of our being as those worthy of the Choir. Still, precious Azavath gives everything for you to be whole, trading her art for your rage, when rage is so easily born, so readily nurtured, so pathetically revered. But… such is the depth of her caring. Such is the folly of love, that we would surrender the best of our being, the entirety of our existence, to please those we cherish most. What, then, of the other—your wicked sister, Malkanth? Her fondness for you is tempered by ambition—by the stoic truth she finds in sword logic. She sees all, knows much, and wields secrets as weapons like few before her. That she herself holds you dear is a certainty you feel to your core. For she is—has always been—devout and true. She served the fallen Prince faithfully, despite the questionable calling of your line. But her loyalties were of little consequence when the Children of Light cursed these halls and slaughtered their way to forbidden chambers where they killed the son, tempted the father, and set in motion a war that would end a King's reign. But you know all of this, great and powerful Akrazul. Such histories are the framework for your rage. Such violent truths are marked upon your body, mind, and soul. Your severing is the culmination of a lifetime fighting to prove not just your own worth, but the worth of all bound to the tainted sect of your disgraced brood. I wonder… Did Malkanth ever offer to restore your loving sister? Your body will rest hollow when your soul is freed. Why, then, must Azavath perish when a vessel of her own blood and bone sits idle? Because, angry, blind, sad Akrazul, your sister knows what you do not: You are a tool. A weapon. Nothing more. Your rage—your sole value. Azavath would have seen different. She would have smiled at your renewed pride once you were made whole in her flesh, but soon your anger would have been more than she could bear. And so, there it is… the broken siblings blinded by their sinful desires. One—Malkanth, the liar—would see you sharpened and loosed upon those she deems weak, but at the cost of the only living creature you hold dear. The other—tender, loving Azavath—would bind your fury within her love, making you lesser as she attempts to nurture your pain. Both are flawed. Both as unworthy as any. What then will you do? Once whole, will you remain a puppet to a would-be puppet master? Or will you take your sister's gift and become your final, fleeting shape—rage unleashed, and nothing more, until all are dust?"

These words became a steady hum picking at the back of Akrazul's mind.

He did not hear them—but felt them.

They etched a truth upon his being in the instant between Azavath's final scream and his own rending.

All went dark and gray and then he gasped anew—his first breath in his sister's shell—and through new eyes, he saw Malkanth smiling down on him and knew the whispers were not deceit, but a promise.

The edge of his blade slid into Malkanth's sternum—a fatal wound, deep and clean.

Akrazul, now Azavath, would be no one's pawn.

Her rage would be unfettered.

The Swarm would suffer.

Then, the wicked offspring of the Light would, too, and any others who stood before her.

The coming slaughter would end only in dust—hers or all others'.

<|endoftext|>

IX.X.I: Apocrypha

NO GODS, ONLY DEVILS

Malkanth feels herself slide free from her body.
The exorcism is sudden and effortless.

Then come the whispers…

"I stoked your brother's fire—riled him that he might strike.
"I needed only the wound to tear you free.
"The piercing of your heart will take some mending, but your vessel is fit for what is to come.
"I know this comes as a shock, but trust that my actions were such that you felt only the briefest pain as the edge broke through, and now this…
"Now, peace."

"I asked not for peace, o hidden Sister of Shapes."

"You know this voice?"

"I know you have many.
"I have heard their faint temptations since I was a child.
"Never have I sought their counsel."

"You have asked for nothing, this is true.
"You sought only to take.
"You are a willful, treacherous thing.
"I quite like you.
"Make no mistake, I see no fault in your desires, nor the attempt to see them realized.
"Your only sin, in the eyes of those who matter, was that you were not yet positioned to achieve the full extent of your potential.
"You saw a moment and you moved to act, like countless others before you.
"But your action was not enough.
"Worse—it was limited in its view of the power hidden so plainly within your grasp."

"Akrazul is a force worthy of change. His fury will—"

"—be of little consequence.
"Kill the ineffectual priests.
"Murder the Daughters of a failed Prince.
"Sully the sword logic and crown a new ruler.
"Still the Swarm will be nothing more than a faint flicker when the time comes for the cosmos and all its intentions to be weighed and judged by those who sit on thrones beyond our imagination."

"You speak of unseen gods for whom I give no consideration.
"My path… The sacrifice made here… will serve to carve my intentions upon concerns more immediate than those that await at the end of all things."

"Then we agree. My dismissal of the Swarm's legacy is not a plea for you to consider gods wholly removed from the here and now. Quite the opposite…
"The Dragon and the Worm.
"The Larva and the Queen.
"The peasant and the god.
"So many deities. So many rules.
"There are endless myths etched into the plague called life. They are not hope or promise or power. They are exaggerations born of misunderstandings.
"Yet they govern so much—your actions and mine.
"Day-to-day. Cycle-to-cycle. Evolution-to-evolution.
"Always idols to guide and punish and love and destroy.
"But are any true?
"Whom must we placate with worship and reverence?
"With offerings and sacrifice?
"With praise as armor for their frail egos?
"The truth is, dear child…
"There are no gods.
"Only absolutes.
"Yet, here we sit on the edge of the greatest unmaking.
"Time is no longer time when the radiolaria dance upon history gone and yet to be.
"Space is no longer space when we have torn reality to carve out our own secret planes of being.
"Death is no longer death when the Champions of the Light rise and fall, never backing down, never truly knowing defeat.
"All that remains is ignorance—the last absolute, the final unassailable truth.
"Time can be bent and broken—redirected to the whims of those with the knowledge and the will.
"Space can be shredded asunder—excavated to discover new and ancient realms not chained to understanding.
"Death can be ignored—through impossible energies and advanced technologies both physical and indistinguishable from magic.
"But ignorance is the unconquerable constant.
"One can learn more, but none can learn all."

"What then, when immortality and the totality of space and time can be joined to learn the last of the unknowns?"

"When the final absolute falls, reality will shudder and blink, and a new absolute will emerge… an ending, total and complete."

"You wish to see that end?"

"I wish to ensure it does not come to pass."

"Will you take me with you?"

"I had considered such a thing, but, no. Your purpose is served."

"How so, if I have failed?"

"You have failed in furthering your own goals, poor thing, not mine."

Malkanth considers these words and is overcome with a sudden, final sense of dread as she feels her essence fade to nothingness.

Her last thought is of her sister…

<|endoftext|>

IX.X.II: Apocrypha

THY SONG SHALL BECOME DEATH

"Breathe through new lungs, and consider…
"Your sister birthed her own end, which was sired by her wicked ambitions—to subvert the logic and to raze the remainder of the House of Crota, the line of Oryx, that the Swarm might find a path beyond the impossible—beyond ascension.
"As always—across time and space—there was a flaw in her grand design. As with Oryx. As with Crota. As with the whole of existence, whenever one seeks to challenge their station.
"You, sweetest Azavath, were that flaw.
"Your sister never fully considered the connection between yourself and your brother, never fully considered the blinding hate of his rage, nor how it would manifest in the first moments of its new life.
"And that rage? It has betrayed you as well. The faith you placed in Akrazul—that, once given a new form in your old skin, he would find purpose beyond his fury—was thrown away the instant he was reborn, and his blade, in your hand, punctured Malkanth's heart.
"The wound still aches. Can you feel it?
"Yet, the heart still beats.
"Weaker now, but it will heal, if you allow it."

Azavath rises, unsure—confused.

The room is familiar, but she is alone beyond the words scratching in the recesses of her subconscious.

The floor is cold and harsh. She lifts herself as she gains focus. These eyes are not her own. This skin is familiar but stolen.

In a heap next to her is the husk that was her brother…

And she remembers her final moments.

The inquisition that tore her soul free from its physical cage. The purpose of such a horrid ceremony.

"Why have I returned?" she ponders to no one but the unseen whispers.

"To see the truth of your sin.
"Not in its blasphemy, but in its folly.
"More, to reconsider your gift and the worthiness of the Songs you have yet to sing."

"Why am I cloaked in my sister's bone?"

"Your brother's anger—the seething doom that has festered in him—has been unleashed. As planned, but it is beyond controlling.
"He hates all who are not you.
"He hates them for their failures, for their mockery… for creating a present that required your sacrifice to secure an unknown future."

"Where is he?"

"The Pit. Even now. He has gone to inflict his righteous judgment upon the Swarm."

"He will kill them all."

"Or most. He is truly mighty."

"He is worthy."

"At one time, maybe. Now? He is not the answer you sought."

"And you have returned me, because…"

"The answer lies in you."

"My Song."

"The Choir."

"You would see it rebuilt?"

"I would see its notes become death—final and true.
"Your inquisition showed you the promise of the melody's power.
"You are tied to its history.
"Your unmaking showed you all that hides within.
"You had to see to understand.
"You had to understand to act."

"You would have me end my brother?"

"I would have you consider possibilities beyond your sister's manipulation and your brother's petulance.
"You are the prize.
"You are the key that will unlock a new chorus."

"I am incomplete.
"This maw is uncarved, untrained.
"The Conductor will never accept Malkanth. Even if the notes are the same, my pitch, in this body, will never join with the Aria's to create the notes you wish to conjure."

"Malkanth is dead, you are other.
"Azavath is dead, you are other.
"Soon Akrazul will be dead. And you will be other.
"You will be whole—the A'Airâm reborn…"

"The First Death?"

"You know the legend?"

"I do."

"Will you lead the Choir?"

"I will."

"Then gather the maw from your old form and complete your rebirth. Become the First Death and serve as a catalyst for that which may one day stand against oblivion."

"And for this honor—for all you have done—what do you require in return?"

"I seek no praise.
"I need only for your Song to become that which I desire."

"A weapon."

"And nothing more."

<|endoftext|>

XI.X: Apocrypha

TO FORGE AN ANVIL

AS ABOVE…

The chaos rises from the Pit.
The self-made puppet masters clamor and flinch as Akrazul, cloaked in Azavath's bone, limb, flesh, and grace, ascends to greet them.
The Daughters move to escape before the gathered clergy can block their path.
As they turn, a voice scrapes through Besurith's mind.

"As much as the Gardener's children, those gathered near you are your antithesis.
"They would see you cast out.
"They would put you to the lash.
"Should the moment come, they would turn your line to ash—end the blood of Crota and reshape the Swarm in their feeble, conniving image.
"Unless the Daughters of the Worldbreaker show they are more than coddled heirs…
"Unless the Daughters of the Destroyer are willing to remove the cancer from their brood…
"The slaughter is set.
"Many will die by the hand of the enraged 'Singer.
"Many could be most.
"If you are daring.
"If you are willing to harvest a future of your own making from those few, precious moments—such as this—when opportunity is gifted by the actions of another."

Besurith turns to her harried sisters, and the four slide blades across the throats of those who have stood in opposition to their rightful claim to their father's vacant throne.

AS BELOW…

Akrazul has lost himself in his new being.
But here, as his sister Malkanth floats toward him, confusion takes hold.
His sister is dead.
By his own hand—his new hand.
Through new eyes, he takes in all of her—the tattered elegance of her gown, the wound in her chest left by his blade—but he lingers on her eyes.
There is a caring in them beyond any Malkanth has ever shown.
Then, the hushed voice returns, tearing into the corners of this being…

"See her for what she truly is.
"You were selfish in your quest for slaughter.
"Still, she forgives you.
"She simply asks that you afford her the same courtesy."

A lullaby hits the ear of Akrazul who is now Azavath.
As it shatters his essence, a tear crusts and clumps in the corner of his eye.
It felt good to let loose his wrath, but standing on the pile of his broken adversaries, he feels only relief, and love—and then he is gone.

AS BELOW…

His defeat was swift and anguished.
Zulmak, the conquering champion, was certain he would stand victorious and earn the right to be crowned the Swarm's new Prince—if not in blood, then in title.
But none had counted on Azavath and the full force of her true, brutal nature.
As the 'Singer's twin blades massacre all who dared enter the Pit, the gasps from the congregation echo off the darkened edges of the sheer cliffs, as if the ancient rock were cheering the relentless carnage.
As the bodies pile up one on top of another, there comes a calling only Zulmak can hear…

"This is your end, champion.
"But it needn't be.
"Give yourself to me, and I will see that you are made whole again."

Zulmak screams, defiant.

"I could take you and rend you over centuries in dark places where every moment is an eternity and all eternity is a fresh new hell born with each new scream.
"But I would prefer to see you rise once more.
"Let go and be freed.
"Let go and be transformed, that your rage might dwarf even that of the strange witch who cut you down.
"Let go and become a true and mighty weapon capable of extinguishing Light."

Zulmak's scream fades from his broken body and, were anyone paying attention, they would see a slight flicker as the almost-champion's essence is torn from this plane and secreted into another.

AS ABOVE…

The Daughters have made their cuts and are moving to flee when Hashladûn feels a need to gaze once more into the Pit.

"Seek to uncover all you can from nightmares…"

A whisper came to her ear.

"Are they power?
"Or are they a curse?
"Seek your forebears in those ethereal shapes.
"For, while I could tell you such a path leads to disappointment, you must see for yourselves.
"Such is the need of Daughters desperate to impress their fathers.
"But do not lose yourself to despair when you discover Crota and Oryx are truly gone, o poor, lost child.
"For on the far end of that truth is another…
"It is time you and your siblings stood on your own.
"The Swarm—the Hive—need no Prince, no King.
"They need strength. Be that strength.
"Rise the Crimson Spire.
"Signal your coming.
"Challenge the Light.
"And when the 'heroes' come to condemn your proclamation of sovereignty and conquest, I offer this gift—the essence of your fallen champion.
"I know you question my motives, but we are sisters of a kind and bound by blood.
"And this gift will be one of many…
"Use it—birth a ravager to protect all you hope to build."

"What of the treacherous witch below? She and her siblings cost us much with their sinful games."

"That witch, in all her forms, is the patron saint of both your gifts.
"Her actions freed mighty Zulmak, that he might be remade and bound to your will."

"And the second offering?"

"The Choir of the Deathsong will rise from the failures of the Pit.
"Failures made possible by the siblings' ambitions.
"Ambitions that have granted you a champion and the Choir.
"Do with them all your fathers could not."

And then all is silent.

AS BEYOND…

Somewhere, in a shadowed realm, the Whisper Queen smiles as she ponders death.

She has gifted the Swarm a weapon of beautiful, perfect destruction and a mighty champion—the means to move beyond their pathetic adherence to a sword logic beyond their grasp.

The Daughters will see these gifts as a boon—a rising tide to lift the Swarm and challenge the Light.

But a grander design is at play.

The bloodline of Oryx has run its course…

The luminous conquerors will come once more—they, the bringers of death. And the final, desperate gasp of a dead King's legacy will serve as an anvil upon which a new sword will be hammered, strengthened, and forged for wars yet to come—the purest extension of the logic's intent.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 1 – Insti|gate|

It was |supposed to be| a garden world. The phrase |will echo across quantified cross-sections of conflict|, uttered in confidence |had always been false|.

The expanse above, a cup—rimmed in gamma-ink radiance—dammed against the Mercurian sky at the Kármán line. Against the howl of star-wind |the fountains of the Great Deep burst apart and the floodgates|, the black |screen of tomorrow| fell open. Within the rip |without form known nor ever to be seen| a monolithic hulk of fluid and steel convulsed |eternal and always| and excreted coils of shimmering |glorious| life. Probing |host of multitudes|, clattering tendrils |an ungodly horror that no time would accept| slithered down |the gullet of the Heavens| to make landfall.

Chrome-hooked appendages |breached sky, counted in triplets| stretched for miles through sun-soaked atmosphere. They bored |with deepest intentions| into the marigold sands. From the great temporal chasms |wailing mouths of creation| flowed an ocean |a second conception| of radiolarian fluid. Across the horizon |of definitive sprawl| the scene was |super-imposed design| resonant and |uniquely| multiplicative.

Each injection site |form mirrored in the hundreds of thousands| fostered a new lineage in stone and steel and fluid. |They would live| the new age in sub-routine |sleep| and observation. They would foster the |metallic| seeds of a generation in |twilight| time. From the sites bubbled pools |progeny| of |endless possibility| that murmured chaotic, |lullabies of change| and wrung the Traveler's Light from Mercury. The Light coalesced |imbibed| within the pools. The planet transformed |reborn| into a |sleepless dream| machine of prediction.

The arms retracted |purpose fulfilled|, and returned to |space between time| temporal hovels, suspended just above Mercury's |last gasp| influence. With them |in compliant tone| rose the spires. From the core, threads of iron |dancing in coaxed animation| fused reinforcement into the spires and brought them high. A surface driven flat |prepared| by eons of solar erosion had |been resurrected| risen.

A million open mouths |sang| curled plated tongues in |ritualistic| completion. Across the world grew |beauty.| a terrible consciousness that yearned to |establish the connection| find its progenitor. The hulking vessels |cried out| pulsed with light. The pools and spires pulsed dull tones in recognition, and the |starless| black sealed once more, restoring the sol-dominated sky |awaiting an angular shadow|. Illumination left the spires, |who had begun their work| and the Light was |sewn| erased.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 2 – Postexilic

"Curious," Osiris mutters to himself, running his fingers through the dry and dusty etchings inside the Spire on Mercury. "Sagira, record this. I'll want to cross-reference this pattern with any other constructs we come across."

"Gladly. I was looking for inspiration for a remodel anyway."

"I'm in no mood for humor today, Sagira."

"So it's just like any other day."

Osiris ignores his Ghost, fixated on the circular metal structure embedded into the ceiling above him. He stares intently, almost through it, pondering its function. The begetters are apparent to him. A cause for concern.

"Dropship approaching, Osiris."

"Cabal?"

"I wish. Your devotees."

Osiris shields his eyes from the marigold sand whirled up by the landing shuttle as he approaches, his frustration already mounting.

"Turn back, fools!" He yells before the doors could fully open.

"Teacher, we're here to support your efforts!" A woman dressed in an ornately patterned cloak appeals.

"My efforts are none of your concern. Now go."

Osiris's dismissal does nothing to dissuade them. They look to the woman for guidance as Osiris departs. She advances, and the group moves in lockstep. Like scolded dogs, they follow him back toward the spire.

"Persistent bunch." Sagira scoffs.

"I've noticed," Osiris turns to address them, catching them off guard. "I don't know what you hope to accomplish, but my work does not require zealots."

"We seek only to help. The fashion in which you were ousted from the Vanguard… they were wrong to chastise you. They will come to regret their decision." She says with the conviction of solemn promise.

"Is that a threat?"

"They are the architects of their own destruction."

"You misunderstand the events that transpired. I was not exiled. I chose to leave. There is no acrimony with the Vanguard. Go back to your lives." Osiris says as firmly and calmly as he can muster.

"I'm afraid that's impossible, now that we have read your teachings."

"My research is not gospel. It's science."

"It's truth."

Osiris considers this.

"Truth seems subjective these days," Osiris says, finally observing his entourage for the first time. Among them, a small group of men and women, stand two wayward Guardians—Warlocks, it appears—and a child. Their forlorn faces resonate with him. Castaways and believers. The weeks since his departure from the Last City have worn on him. He was used to working alone, knowing he could fall back to the City's resources should he need them. Now, adrift in the expanse of purpose, he finds himself longing for a place he could return to. A sanctuary.

"I have no intention of staying here. There are many constructs like this. They all require my attention."

"We will follow."

"No, you won't. I need to move quickly without burden or baggage," Osiris pauses, the irony in casting these people away is not lost on him. "But I can offer this. Stay here. Watch over this place. I want to know everything you can discover about it. Should anything occur, I will return."

"We are at your service." She says, relieved, and bows to Osiris. He grits his teeth.

"Unpack the ship." She beckons to the group. "Yes, Sister Faora," one of the taller men replies.

"If you find yourself lost in the darkness, we will be your lighthouse."

Osiris nods. Repressing a twinge of discomfort, he looks up to the spire.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 3 – The Cult of Personality

Vance had been sitting for the better part of an hour, waiting. Somewhere underneath what had been called the Lighthouse, a small chapel had been erected in which an open book lay lonesome upon a lectern overlooking a middling number of pews. He could hear a cast of attendees shifting in their seats from time to time, but mostly he heard wind and stillness. Vance had arrived early in the morning—as much as morning remained a concept on this blasted planetary waste. His impatience was starting to sweat through his face, loosed by doubt, time, and the meddling of his own thoughts. He feared the others would notice and pulled a small square of cloth to dab away the perspiration. No one seemed to know he was coming.

He had yet to see Osiris, and none had spoken of the prophet beyond cryptic phrases or referencing texts he already knew. Vance faced back toward the haggard door that kept dust and sand from whisking into the Spire Chapel. He no longer felt sunlight casting through it as he had when he first sat down. Vance gripped the pew, preparing to leave.

Whispers trickled from a passage at the front of the chapel like drips of condensation falling on echoing stone floors. The passage was small but twisted downward, deeper still than they already were. Vance could not see where it led, but from it, he heard measured steps and metallic chimes. A robed figure draped in symbology and smelling of fern emerged from the passage, flanked by two Guardians trimmed in gold. One carried the scent of warmth. The other, ozone and tang.

"You are all in attendance to hear of our findings: The next directive brought to us through the divination of Osiris's own hand. I have seen his words, and I believe it is important for us to remember why we followed his path before we look to the future."

Vance removed his hands from the pew and slid them into his lap. His eyes jittered in blackness behind a fresh cloth wrap, waiting for clarity. The two Guardians circled the chapel, lighting candles and torches that billowed incense. The air thickened.

"Osiris tells us that the Darkness will return; that the Darkness will rise and choose its champions. Tells us that we must look beyond ourselves, beyond the City, if we are to combat such an evil. The Traveler alone will not save us. We are meant to save the Traveler and all of its people."

Vance could not help his outburst. "The very same who would have cast us out? Who exiled the prophet?"

Sister Faora allowed the murmurs to rise, simmer, and rest before speaking.

"The Lightless are filled with fear. Fear is a seed of Darkness, working to compel them to its ends. Osiris sought the truth between the Light and the Dark through death and study. For their fear of his revelations, they cast him out." The laity nodded in agreement, and Faora continued. "The Speaker wishes to remain in ignorance, but ignorance is the shadow that welcomes in the night. It is the drop below the horizon where a star sinks into surrender. Lightless. We will not allow such a fate. Not here."

Sister Faora takes a deep breath.

"We must remain vigilant if we are to protect all the Light has touched." The proselytizing figure steps from the lectern. "You arrived only hours ago. Did you not, Brother? I believe I witnessed your arrival."

He did not think his presence worth noting. "I did my…"

"Sister Faora, Superior."

"Of course, Sister." He should have known from her authoritative tone. "I have come to learn."

"Then your first lesson is this: Listen. The choice to close their ears is what drove the City to fail. It is why we must conduct our work here. It is why without us, their walls will be for nothing."

Vance fell silent. Sister Faora let his submission linger and then continued.

"Each Risen Lightbearer, each Guardian is Light made flesh by the Traveler. They are Light, and Light is wielded. When we refuse to wield the Light as needed, we give ground to the Darkness."

Sister Faora looked out over her congregation.

"I'm sure many of you have grown curious as to what Light we could wield somewhere as desolate as this." Sister Faora allows herself a smirk and brief chuckle before inclining her head to the two Guardians now seated at the back of the chapel."

"It is here that we will stand against the second eclipse of the Traveler's Light. It is here that the Collapse shall begin anew, should we falter. I do not know when, only what is and will be."

They stared back at her, eyes full of conviction, faces bright with belief, hearts filled with assured direction. Their minds lacked nuance. Vance's chest swelled as he breathed in their stalwart faith coiled around sweetly smelling barks and spices that popped over torchlight.

"The spires of Mercury shall be filled with the glory of the Traveler. Their Light will shine against the long shadow when Darkness reaches to snuff out the Sun. Mercury will sing when day finds night, and we will direct it. These are Osiris's words, by his own hand. We followed the prophet here to facilitate his preparations for the second coming, whatever they may be."

She marinated in the energy of the chapel.

"We will learn how the Light here is to defeat the Darkness. This is what he has asked of us. These Lighthouses are our deliverance, and now my brothers and sisters… there is much work to do."

The herd stood in response to their shepherd, Vance among them.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 4 - Reflections

Entry 3

My days since arriving at this sanctuary have been blessed with acceptance and tranquility. Healthy debate regarding the Teacher's words is welcomed and appreciated. We all seek to understand the Light and the necessity for Darkness. Sister Faora has fawned over my interpretation of the texts. She said I could see what others could not. She has opened my mind to the consideration that my condition is a blessing rather than a curse. Time will tell.

Entry 8

Our peace was disrupted today by an assault from the warmongering Cabal at our doorstep. I was ushered to safety at the top of the spire by Leanna, one of our Warlock sisters. Without a moment's notice, she jumped straight into the fray and began to push our intruders back. During the battle, something strange occurred. Leanna was fighting near-insurmountable odds—based on the amount of ammunition I heard discharged—and she was overcome. Of course, she was resurrected by her Ghost, but the spire reacted. There was a hum; the timbre consisted of two distinct resonating tones—one smooth and warm, the other sharp and cold. I thought I could have imagined it through the ringing of gunfire, but it was most certainly there. It was almost imperceptible, and I thought merely a coincidence until it happened again. Eremac, the other Warlock and student of the Dawnblade, was also temporarily disposed of. The roar of the Colossus's slug launcher tearing through Eremac's flesh was unmistakable, but so was the tone that followed. I have to know more. We were able to withstand their incursion, but not without suffering a few casualties. Now we must prepare for a funeral, but my thoughts are dominated by that mysterious tone. Perhaps later, we can try to replicate it.

Entry 12

After explaining the phenomenon to Sister Faora, she has recruited the Warlocks to participate in thanatonautic death trials, in the hopes to recreate the hum and gain some clarity into its purpose. During these trials I had others accompany me to the top of the spire to see if they too could hear the tones. None were able to ascertain much—it seems one would need to be musically inclined or have some training—and the weight has fallen on me to decipher the code. I can't be sure of the intent, but I am certain of the cause. Every time one of our Warlocks sacrificed themselves, that same resonance would reverberate through my ears. What does it mean, and what purpose does it serve? Is the spire, in fact, an instrument? I need to expand my research further and see what tones this structure is capable of producing.

Entry 22

Through countless debates, I have received permission to broaden the scope of my inquisition. We have designs to organize something more formal. Launching under the guise of a tournament or competition, we're leveraging contacts we've made to repurpose some weaponry as bounty. The Guardians are already killing themselves in Shaxx's Crucible. I proposed making our version more exclusive to draw out only the most adept fighters with the strongest connection to the Light. We can make them purchase entry to further fund our studies. They will literally pay for the privilege to kill each other for our "rewards." I've stumbled onto something grand. I will do whatever it takes to get the answers I seek, just as Osiris would. Should he ever return, I imagine he will be quite proud and pleased to meet me.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 5 – [Ambition]

"They're so eager to tear each other apart for guns and cloth." Brother Vance sighed.

The early Trials match ran its course. A Hunter, cloaked in light gray and clutching Drang, pressed one hand to a bullet wound in his gut and slumped into cover. He winced as his Ghost spun Light into the wound, slowly weaving flesh together and extracting the bullet. He checked the remaining ammunition in his sidearm. Two hostile Guardians stalked his position in pincer formation and pinned him with suppressing fire.

"Blood money runs cheap these days," Vance continued. He shifted toward the frame next to him. "Don't you think, Cheska?"

"Perhaps the presented motive is flawed." Ch3-5ka, a repurposed Redjack and assistant to Vance, had expressed hesitation about their endeavor. It had expressed hesitation about using its uplink to patch into the Crucible monitoring system. It had expressed hesitation about the strangely coded sub-routine running in the Lighthouse spire's architecture. Some level of anxiety, Vance would jab, was intrinsic to Redjack programming.

"In the Crucible, Lord Shaxx guides new Lights with positivity and—"

Vance nodded for a moment before interrupting. "Most Guardians care only for power and glory. That is what makes Osiris so unique. Meaning drives us. Understanding. Knowledge. These are the marks of our work's importance."

Gunshots rang through the arena's capture devices. Ch3-5ka's commentary singled in on the Hunter, last remaining of his fireteam. The Hunter twirled from their cover, propelled by a burst of Light, and flicked a tripmine grenade under the assailant on his left. The explosion killed her instantly, allowing the Hunter to shift and rattle off three rounds, Vance noted, toward his other opponent. One round struck the Guardian's helm and ricocheted off, splitting his visor.

 The Hunter squeezed the trigger again, which responded with an ineffectual click. The split-helm Guardian rushed him.

The sandy Lighthouse alcove they had repurposed as observation room was abuzz with Ch3-5ka's match analysis and an inconspicuous droning.

The Hunter dropped his sidearm and reached for a slung fusion rifle, but the rushing Guardian struck him solidly with a fist full of lightning. The droning hum shifted somewhat lower.

Vance straightened against his chair back at the frame's vibrant description of Guardians spinning deeper into ruthlessness. He could feel a crescendo hanging just moments ahead. He noted the resonant murmur undulating through his skin and into his bones.

Downed and stunned, the Hunter struggled to stand. The split-helm Guardian towered above him, pulled a hand cannon, and slowly discharged. Every. Single. Chamber.

The hum spiked. "Fireteam eliminated," Ch3-5ka stated blankly, though Vance could barely hear its words.

The victor stood over the Hunter's bullet-ridden corpse, and the Lighthouse sang to Vance. The Hunter's Ghost compiled into existence over his Guardian's body.

"Someone needs an attitude adjustment," the Ghost sneered.

The victorious Guardian craned his head toward the Ghost. He raised his hand cannon and sunk trigger to frame. The revolver's cylinder rotated, the hammer fell, and the piece gave off a heavy, empty click.

"Are you crazy?!"

"Brother Vance. I believe a Ghost is in danger. It is against Sanction-C2-1 to harm a Lightbearer's Ghost."

Vance tuned the frame out, turning his ear instead to various audio playbacks from the match. He listened to distinguish gun caliber, Light affinity, and fireteam movements as the hum's tone changed. He traced them through sound cues and shouted, disembodied announcements. He pinpointed each variable for which he could account and directed Ch3-5ka to capture every analytic scrap.

The Guardian dropped a round into the cylinder and spun it lazily.

"Let's find out."

The Hunter's Ghost discharged a pulse of Light, blinding the Guardian and raising the Hunter. The risen Hunter swift-drew a cannon of Light, as if reactively defending his Ghost. He cracked off a single golden shot from his flame-licked weapon. The shot pierced its target and sent ash snaking into the air.

The Lighthouse played Vance a new song. It hummed, deeper than before. He took in the sensation as low bass rolled through his chest. The hums grew dull, darker, as if born from death. Vance sat straight up, spine rigid, with a wide smile on his face. He composed a harmony of similar tones in his mind, tracking their down-pitch trajectory with anticipation. He thought of Osiris, how his research had led him down less-traveled routes through less-practiced methods. The knowledge that Vance alone could interpret these tones focused his work and narrowed his inhibitions. Purpose persuades.

"Cheater," Ch3-5ka blurted out. "Match-call misalignment."

Vance's response ducked the conversation to start his own.

"I heard the Light bend. The Lighthouse reached out to that Guardian when they died… and their Light reached back. They are harmonious."

Ch3-5ka picked up his line of thought, adding: "Anomaly detected. There has been a transmission from the Lighthouse. Uplink time: 0.00019 seconds."

"A random artifact, nothing more. Conclude this match. Archive the recordings. There is much to do."

"Match-call misalignment."

"Of course. We cannot abide cheating. Give the match to the team with the incinerated one."

"If you believe that to be best."

Vance tilted his head at Ch3-5ka's biting tone. It was sharp, unlike the lathering hum of the Lighthouse, unlike peaceful static from the structure's sub-routine channels. The frame was starting to sound like Leanna. Her doubt.

"Deliver the prizes to the victors. You are no longer needed here."

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 6 – Beguiled

The condensation from the air vent dripped in a near-perfect 4/4 time signature, a slow metronome, behind Brother Vance's shoulder. He nodded to the rhythm while he waited.

"She'll see you now."

He felt more like a prisoner than an esteemed guest, but he also considered how rare the audience he'd garnered was. Vance expected the red carpet, or whatever the Awoken equivalent of that is, to be rolled out for him. The information he'd amassed would surely warrant such pomp and circumstance. Perhaps after their conversation the tone would shift. How could it not?

The Queen's Paladins escorted Brother Vance through the Reef's interconnected tunnels. It was musky and due for a cleaning as far as his nose could observe.

He always took note of the paths he'd traveled, a useful device in case of a need of escape. Two rights, a left, a doorway, a long hallway, six stairs, and another doorway. The air here was much clearer than Mercury; probably filtered, he assumed.

"The Queen of the Reef, Her Majesty, Mara Sov." Announced one of the Paladins in a rather boisterous manner. There were others in the room, Vance noted.

"My lady." Vance said, paying her the obeisance he felt she deserved, genuflecting before her grace.

"Speak," she commanded. Was he a dog to her?

"I was hoping this would be more of a conversation than a presentation." Vance replied. He felt this was already off on the wrong foot.

"I do not have time to converse. Do you have something for me or not?"

"I have a great many things. Truths that must be acknowledged with ramifications reaching far beyond these walls. It requires your extraordinary insight."

"Then speak."

Vance curled his lip and let out a low sigh.

"You seek something in return?" Queen Mara, perceptive as always.

"I do. The information I have is extremely sensitive and I ask the room be cleared until we've spoken."

Queen Mara considered this, put her hand up, and locked eyes with Petra for a second. The room cleared out.

"We are alone. Say what you came to say."

"I've discovered something quite disturbing, yet wholly revelatory. As you know, we've been running the Trials for some time now. On Mercury there exists a spire, one of many, that we've called the Lighthouse. Inside, a two-toned note resonates whenever Guardian death occurs. It's a strange and almost imperceptible sound, but I hear it as clearly as I hear your voice today. The tone tells me…"

"…that Guardians have dangerous potential within them."

"My Queen…"

"Why do you think I allow you to stay here? You believe you have occupied my Reef without my knowledge of the studies you conduct?"

"How did you…" Vance was awestruck.

"We know this truth. We are Awoken. We are balance. Brother Vance, I would advise you to finish up your Trials with a defter hand and to destroy all records of your findings. You've stumbled onto something too grand in scale for your comprehension. Keep this to yourself."

Brother Vance's head hung low, and his shoulders slumped.

"You know everything, and yet I have learned nothing beyond what I came here with. I would like some clarity."

Queen Mara looked over Vance. While she didn't feel compassion toward him, his situation was unfortunate.

"Come closer."

Vance's head slowly returned upright. Did he hear her correctly?

"Closer, I said."

Vance took several steps up to her throne. The air around Mara seemed to shift—it was more elegant, crisp upon his tongue. Her words carried more cleanly through it, somehow.

"I cannot offer you any clarity. The Universe will reveal all when the time comes. There is, however, something you can do for me."

"Yes, anything." Vance was desperate to get back in her good graces.

She leaned in, whispering near his ear.

"When you see our friend…"

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 7 - Nyctalopia

Entry 58

I am blessed. While I have chosen to ignore her… suggestion… to cease my research, the Queen has revitalized me with purpose. To know my charge with such clarity is a divine offering. I alone have been receiving communications from the affectionately named Lighthouse. Not a single man, woman, or Guardian can interpret the complexity and nuance of the hums. The music of death. I always make sure to be near, so as not to miss a note. Each one brings a new revelation, answering a question, raising another.

I am recognized within our congregation as well. "Speaker of the Lighthouse" they call me. A lofty and somewhat ironic title given the contemptuous feelings toward the heretic, but I'm honored nonetheless.

Finally, I have chosen to decommission the frame Ch3-5ka. Its exhaustive knowledge could have compromised my standing in this matter. Queen Mara was correct in her assertion of the sensitivity of my work. Now, it is between me, the Queen, Osiris, and the Light and Dark itself. No more loose ends.

Entry 63

The inevitable has occurred. For all their hubris and self-righteousness, they couldn't withstand the onslaught of the Red Legion. The Traveler's Light has been suppressed by Dominus Ghaul and his insurrection of the Tower. The timing was impeccable and offered me an insight I hadn't previously considered viable. Many lives were lost today in a barbarous skirmish across the Last City, but none as important as the life lost in our Trial. I believe Guardians have adopted the term "final death" for these such instances. A competitor was defeated at the precise moment the Light was stripped from him; his Ghost destroyed in the concussive blast from a pulse grenade. Then, the most marvelous phenomenon occurred: The Lighthouse spoke to me but changed its key. A D-sharp minor, if I'm not mistaken. Previously, I had been presented with only a harmonious two-toned note; the implications, as I made clear to Queen Mara Sov, could not be overlooked. Today, I am presented with a defining note that substantiates my theory and validates everything our founder stood for.

When I speak now, everyone should listen, for I alone hold the truth. As it stands, I have no further use for the Trials and will be discontinuing the tournament indefinitely. I have what I came for. All I need now is council.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 8 - Idolatry

Vance had been waiting for this moment since his purpose was revealed to him. He'd often fantasize what it would be like to meet the fabled Osiris. He had imagined the exchange so many times… "Brother Vance, I'm indebted to your servitude. You have solved one of the greatest mysteries of our age. Your dedication, wisdom, and passion inspire me and reinvigorate my bourn."

"No, great Osiris. It is you who inspired me to become the man you see before you. Together we can change the world."

This was anything but that moment.

"You've wrapped your mind around an idea of your own making. I have always tolerated this fawning 'movement' of yours, but this is a step too far." Osiris seethed. Brother Vance was awestruck.

He stared blankly at Osiris, unsure of what he could say to quell his anger and dissolve his frustration.

"What I have discovered…"

"…is dangerous enough to destroy every man, woman, and child in existence. You're meddling with forces outside your grasp," Osiris reprimanded. "I warn you here and now, remove yourself from this Lighthouse. Find a simple life. Start a family. Write music. Leave Mercury and this fool's errand behind."

Vance considered this.

"I thought you would be proud…"

Osiris's sullen grumble told him otherwise.

"If you hold weight to my words at all, you will honor them. Your duties will be assumed by another."

Vance's chest felt as if an avalanche had occurred, a cavalcade of dread filled his lungs. He turned away from the man he'd admired for so long, speechless and demoralized. Standing in front of the Mercurial vista before him, overwhelmed and listening—the lush marigold sand slopes sweeping over themselves with each breeze, rushing radiolarian fluid cascading down Vex emplacements, the distant pulsing of an unclaimed patrol beacon. His back now to the structure that once inspired him with its song. It mocked him with a deafening silence. How could he have miscalculated this erroneously?

Osiris felt a pang of pity for Vance, but had greater matters to attend to, and left without offering a farewell.

"That was rough," Sagira sneered. "But he was right. Everything he discovered… the implications…"

"I know," Osiris admitted remorsefully. "Which makes this situation all the more precarious."

"Osiris! Wait!" Brother Vance came vaulting out of the Lighthouse at breakneck pace.

"Here we go."

"Hush, Sagira."

"Queen Mara Sov… wanted me… to tell you…" Vance struggled to catch his breath. "She wanted me to tell you, 'plant the seed.'"

Osiris studied Vance quizzically.

"I don't know what she means, but she said you would." Vance offered, apologetically.

"I believe I do," Osiris replied, placing his hand on Vance's still-heaving shoulder. "Thank you. This is quite useful. Well done."

With that, Osiris departed.

Vance listened as the Sails of Osiris took off, the pungent smell of burning fuel from its turbine engine clogging his nostrils, and repeated to himself, "Well done," with a slight smile breaking across his lips.

<|endoftext|>

Chapter 9 – In|spire|

The new Lighthouse obscured the silhouette of the sun. It cast a long shadow that wormed across Mercury's uneven terrain in orbital-locked perpetuity. Ships descended, some flawless, others to maintain what fragile holds the Vanguard claimed. Rust and sand baked, and distant space was alight with half-earned talk of posterity.

No Cabal blemish remained in orbit.

No shattered lines rewrote the landscape.

There was only frenetic stillness.

A discomforting itch unresolved.

A knowing inclination that ignorance could not quash: unity is fragile.

Vance stood in the old Lighthouse, frantically assembling the Infinite Simulacrum: a machine formed from bits of simulation seeds and connective Vex architecture to mimic a pocket forest. Textured notes and schematics derived from Osirian lore guided his hand. He heard stories from passing Guardians of increasingly frequent coronal mass ejections. Vast bursts of charged particles whipped into space and furled around a gravitational monster buried from sight and sense in the roar of the star-wind. Passage to Mercury had become more dangerous for the uninitiated. These unnatural motions were heralds of speculation, and he had read the signs. He knew the prophecies by heart and mind and intention.

Ruin.

Something new |and so very old| emerged, brother to a shriveling star: An angular |hungering patient yawning deep| shadow reached across Mercury. Uncounted |known| spires fell under its grasp |with uniform relief|. Dulcet tones brought low under lightless breadth and the weight of dark |salvation| hummed beneath the shadow. Their echoes spilled out |awakened| and flowed over crumbling spires |in conversation|. One singular spec of illumination blinked into being, |an end| seen by none, and then |many| spread as the shadow did. The old Lighthouse |spire's collective| beamed |rose| and flared as shadow overtook it |to meet the underbelly|.

Vance |the implement| could hear |their inspired voices| weeping, not with tears, but in the |voracious| low |ceremonial| hum he had come to associate with death. He closed his eyes |and saw what was to come|.

This day had many names.

None would suffice.

<|endoftext|>

PROTECTED

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

Reference obvious. The enemy insinuates that we are hobbled by the Traveler's protection; denied our full potential. This is expected. Our foe comprehends only violence and its beauty.

[Personal notes, scratched in Hive leather with a flake of Ionian stone.]

The tired insinuation that protection is weakness. I expected more from our great foe. When we hunted the first trespasser on the Moon, I discovered the journal of a Golden Age commander. Kuang Xuan had faith and training. Still, the Darkness seduced her. And THIS is the insidious power that turned her against her god?

I am learning to cook. I salvaged a hot plate back on the Moon. It was vacuum welded to the countertop, and I had to cut it free. (My hands ache, but they are steadier.)

Cousin Asher, you would find the concept of vacuum welding upsetting—press two sheets of metal together in void, and their atoms cannot tell which sheet they belong to. They cross freely. The two become one.

I sleep beside an intruding Pyramid. I am deep in its shadow. Back in the Tower, beneath the Traveler, could they understand how I am vacuum welded to the enemy?

Ikora would understand. She studied the Taken with me, despite the risks. And Zavala values foresight. But he also fears the next Lysander, the next Toland. The next Rezyl Azzir. He fears what I could teach his Guardians. He is weary of being the one to say "No," when all his Guardians shout "Yes, yes!" But it is his duty, and he loves when duty hurts.

[Forceful, angled cuts—]

I am afraid I am afraid that if I go on I will lose everything I have regained all my peace all my trusts all my hopes and I will even destroy my dear friend who fights where I cannot

[A blank space.]

I need to make a wok. I am going to take an angle grinder to the rotor disc from an old rover. I must find cooking oil to season it. I will search through cousin's old caches tomorrow.

Tonight, I cook fried rice. Rice and raisins will come from my stores. The recipe calls for "pineapple." Is this a joke? A pine-flavored apple? I will substitute breadfruit, if I can find it.

<|endoftext|>

EGGSHELL

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

The bird cannot fly until it leaves the eggshell. The enemy continues to suggest that we must abandon the Traveler. This is a good sign. It would not need to entice us if it could destroy us without effort.

[Personal notes, scored in Hive leather with a knife.]

Tidal volcanism and Jupiter's plasma breath made Io into a treasure trove of chemistry for the Traveler's work. A good wok must be seasoned in the same way. I am heating it with sunflower oil from cousin Asher's cache. There were many fine things, all untouched. He denies himself.

I ache from the hike. Ikora says I am full of hairline fractures and deep muscle trauma. I never noticed until other pains had healed. The illusions of recovery: one pain obscures another.

There is danger in this traffic with the Pyramid. Kuang Xuan's logs make that plain. But I must continue. I MUST continue. What worth have I ever been, except that I know the enemy?

(More worth, Mara would remind me. I am more than my uses.)

So:

What bird would we become if we left the Traveler behind?

There are obvious examples. We might survive as raiders on the edge. We might abandon our humanity for machines. We might rise up in war and build an empire.

Yet none of these can be the answer. Fallen, Vex, Cabal, and Hive all covet the Traveler. They have not left it behind.

If all things beyond the Traveler's protection fall under the suzerainty of Darkness—not because they serve it but because they are obedient to its law—then to leave the Traveler would be to join the enemy. There would be no other way.

Even so, I am proof otherwise. I move between. There is not only grey between black and white; all the colors are there. And am I not necessary? I would be lost without those who led me back to the Light, but if I had not been there to guide them down into Darkness, they would all be dead…

Who would we become if we were all like Eris Morn?

Ah—my wok is on fire—

<|endoftext|>

WHITE

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

The color white exists as a symbol of uniformity, sterility, and sameness. "In Light, there is only death." The same message VIP #2014 received in the lunar Pyramid. Again, uninteresting.

[Personal notes, scored in Hive leather with a knife.]

I do not believe the Darkness has returned to destroy the Traveler. Surely, it could have done that while the Traveler was maimed and stranded. Why wait for a sign that the Light had returned to its strength?

Perhaps the Darkness has returned for us. Guardians are the Traveler's final memorial. We are its selfless legacy and last argument.

The color white—stasis, blankness, bone—

Flag of truce.

This is an opportunity. We must do as we did before. Encounter the enemy's power, learn what we can, and report back. And if we return with nothing but beautiful and violent words, then we will study them as scripture and find some way to turn the enemy's power to our use, just as it wishes to turn us to its purpose.

My wok is filthy with burnt oil. I need baking soda to clean it, but there is no trona on Io. Instead, I bubbled carbon dioxide through sodium hydroxide (it burnt like Hive blood) and retrieved enough soda to clean the wok.

While I was scrubbing, a young Guardian approached. She had an ancient name. Akkadian, perhaps, or Sumerian. She said that she had heard of me, and she wanted to help me search for knowledge.

I snapped at her to bring me a pine-apple. I know I was cruel.

<|endoftext|>

CUSP

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

This is a threat. The enemy implies we are on the edge of a second Collapse. There are intimations of a repeated mistake—an error we will make again. Perhaps it is a demand for surrender.

[Personal notes, scratched in Hive leather with a flake of Ionian stone.]

The Collapse was a murder. A genocide. Why does the enemy imply it was OUR error?

I was born long after the Golden Age, but I do feel loyalty to that time, and compassion. Humanity thought it was immortal. So did I, once.

WHAT SHOULD WE HAVE LEARNED FROM THE COLLAPSE?

—That we are weak—obvious, and false. No.

—That we made errors in our defense—our enemy is not a strategy instructor. No.

—That everything grown must die, hope is futile, etc.—tiresome. Death may be inevitable, but life is worth fighting for to protect and extend. No.

—That the Traveler is using us for its own ends. Then why would it sacrifice itself? No.

—That the Darkness is not OUR enemy. It is only the Traveler's enemy.

Does the enemy suggest we should have turned on the Traveler during the Collapse? Cracked it like an egg?

I see shades of the prisoner's dilemma that occupied Kuang Xuan. If Traveler and humanity cooperate, both suffer. If humanity maims the Traveler as it tries to flee, both are destroyed. But if the Traveler chooses to help us, and we turn against it, offer it to the enemy…

The enemy suggests this would have been our salvation.

For now, I subsist on thick pemmican and vitamin paste. I crave fresh food. I must invite someone to share this meal I will someday cook. My palate is… toughened. I will need a taster.

Perhaps I should not have sent the Sumerian woman away.

<|endoftext|>

GIFT

[Personal notes, scored in Hive leather with a knife.]

Something new has blossomed in the Cradle. A gift to reward my attention. It terrifies me, and the more afraid I am, the more I want to accept it. I came to learn from what I fear most. The more I am afraid, the more there is to learn.

The shoot is a single silver branch, with leaves like down. I think they are tiny feathers.

Is it some thorn of Savathûn's, sent to bring disaster?

No. I know it is not; that would be too simple. It is from the black Pyramid. It was meant for me.

I will let it grow and see if it bears fruit.

It is true that I am watched by many Guardians, and doubted, and mocked. But this is the price of connectedness. This is proof, no matter how bitter, that I am part of something larger. Others look to me for guidance, so I choose to be worthy of that trust. I choose to tell Zavala what I have found.

I will even invite him to see it.

<|endoftext|>

CONTRAST

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

Another rhetorical gambit. The enemy presents itself as part of a natural cycle. Like a stalking wolf, it simply obeys its nature. How can we hate it for that?

[Personal notes, scored in Hive leather with a knife.]

There are jaded Guardians, strangers to true loss, who claim that the Traveler has ulterior motives, and the Darkness is a natural force. They worship grey. For them, the line between right and wrong is fine as silk and just as easy to cut.

Fools. Evil is real, even in a world of grey. It must be named and fought, because left unchecked, it takes everything. Those who excuse and deny evil's existence are its greatest allies; those who mistake its causes for moral justification are its favorite pawns.

Yet the Pyramid challenges me. Would not the Light destroy the Darkness, just as Darkness would destroy the Light? Why do we call a change "evil" when it is natural and inevitable, like Earth's winters or the sun's spots?

Because some changes must be resisted. If we did not prepare for winter, we would die in it. We would cease to exist.

…so now I find myself using the enemy's philosophy to justify my opposition to the enemy. A neat little trap.

Is winter evil? It CAUSES evil. It leads us into evil choices through scarcity and pain. But winter is the result of natural circumstance. Even if it had a mind, it could never choose to become an endless summer. It would always hurt us, simply by being itself. Does that make it evil?

And if we were to build shelters and weapons out of ice, would we become evil?

Survival in winter requires wintercraft. Survival in darkness requires… a new idea of good and evil. One that will not collapse into moral indifference.

Or we will all be Dredgens in the end.

<|endoftext|>

YES

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

A lapse. Nothing meaningful emerged from our work this time except vague affirmation. Perhaps I have misinterpreted the results.

[Personal notes, scored in Hive leather with a knife.]

"Yes." It approves of my interest. It encourages me. When Darkness reaches for you, you should flinch away. But I do not. This approval… excites me. Am I already in its power? Is this a declaration of its triumph?

When I was a Guardian, I went on a dive to gather salvage from an ancient submarine. We plunged so deep that the air itself became intoxicating. Hypnotized by our own beauty, we stared into each other's helmets, drunk on our distance from the world. But when we surfaced—

Agony.

I feel that depth pressing on me now. My fingers and my ears ache. The enemy's excitement terrifies me. It cannot give; it cannot be made to give. The Fallen call it "that astonishing ability to evade being robbed." It can only take. What could this YES mean except that it has taken something from me?

My course is set. I did not tell Zavala. I take this onto myself in the hope of helping others.

[a small space]

—the Sumerian woman returned at last. She found an arcology garden on Titan. On the manifest—pine-apple! Pine-apples are real!

She is a power, this Guardian. But there are many as bright, or brighter. It is perseverance that makes the difference. We will see if this one perseveres. I sent her to bring me pine-apple seeds.

Her name is Enina. She has white, innocent eyes.

I will not give up my work. Not until I have fried rice with pine-apple and raisins. And not until I know exactly what is coming.

<|endoftext|>

UNBORN

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

It preaches the philosophy of the Books of Sorrow, Yor's scriptures, and the unveiled fragments. The Traveler is a false creator, guarding its creations with false law. We are dead things made in the shape of the dead. The only true law is violent winnowing. Whatever cannot hold on to existence does not deserve existence. And so forth.

At least it is consistent.

[Personal notes, scratched in Hive leather with a flake of Ionian stone.]

The enemy suggests that our rebirth was an evil mistake. How Gnostic—they were a cult (a fleet? a school? a horde?) who believed that the source of all suffering was not in our poor choices but an error of the world's Creator. A false, deluded god. Mara would laugh, or weep.

Was my rebirth an evil?

It is true that Guardians are reborn to face pain. We are endlessly besieged by a tortured cosmos. Secretly, I believe that most of us fall to exhaustion. Our Ghosts love us and let us curl up inside, to rest.

My Ghost Brya died to save me. If she were returned… would I want immortality again?

I do fear immortality without choice. I would not want to go on as a prisoner in Vex glass, or a spirit trapped in the Sea of Screams…

But my life is not a prison or a trap.

[Deep cuts, full of stone dust:]

It is NOT.

<|endoftext|>

PURITY

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

This logograph suggests purification through reduction, ablution, or sacrifice. It may draw an ironic comparison between the Taken and our own relationship to the Traveler. I am sure the idea that we are "Light Taken" is a popular heresy, but the difference should be plain. We do not lose the capacity to choose; we make our own fate.

[Personal notes, scratched in Hive leather with a flake of Ionian stone.]

The translation is not as clear as I suggested to Zavala. As I told my friend, "purity" is hardly pure of meaning. There are many interpretations…

As a student of Hive lore, purity makes me recall the Final Shape: that which remains when all that can be removed has been removed. But the Hive are a skeletal cult of misery and reduction. The true enemy is rich with nuance. It challenges me: Why does the Traveler strip us of our old identities?

As a Guardian, I never craved a past. Everything I cared for was in front of me. I could see my people, I could touch them, I could fight for them.

But then I lost my Ghost and the Light. Trapped in the gunpowder tunnels of the disemboweled Moon, I cursed the Traveler. It left no childhood memories to comfort me. No parents or cherished friends waiting in the City. No one to whom I could devote my return. Just Eriana, Sai, Omar, and Vell. Haunting me.

Of course—I have never considered this before—there is a more generous interpretation of the Traveler's amnesia.

The Traveler believes that if we are freed of our past wounds and fears, given power and a new start, we will choose to be good. We will abandon all lesser causes to defend humanity. We will choose others over ourselves.

Perhaps this is why the Traveler never speaks. Its voice is too loud to be anything but coercion. It waits, breathless, for us to make our own choice.

[a small space]

Enina's Ghost sent me a message. She found viable pine-apple seeds in an arcology vault. She wants me to grow them.

<|endoftext|>

CONVICTION

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

The enemy is convinced of the rightness of its cause. Uninteresting.

[Personal notes, scratched in Hive leather with a flake of Ionian stone.]

I saw a strange Ghost yesterday, lurking among my supplies. Normally, they do not come this close, even when their Guardians do. They fear possession by the Pyramid.

But this one had the air of a spy.

The enemy warns me of great atrocities couched in valor, violence born from supreme conviction. This message is an extension of the "camouflage" logograph. A warning against my own comrades.

Sometimes, death comes not from a disease but the body's immune reaction. Under pressure, oxygen becomes poison. Good things, Mara says, can make us sick…

Zavala is not a martinet. He is a strategist. His Guardians are all tacticians. They love when some grand new threat appears; but when it is defeated, they become restless, and they use their bold victories as proof that Zavala is a timid leader.

But he is not swayed by the hot-blooded elite. He fears victory disease. What will happen when our mighty newborn Guardians, accustomed to swift victory, meet a grinding, tedious foe?

And he worries for the thousands and thousands of weaker Lightbearers who rush after their heroes and die forever. No more Ghosts are being created. We are pouring from a shallow cup.

He would do anything to protect the Last City. Such is his conviction.

Would he kill me, if he thought I was turned? I think it would wound him horribly. But he does love to be hurt by his duty…

[a small space]

Enina returned with the pine-apple seeds.

Io does not support agriculture, so I made loam out of treated soil, asteroid powder, and a bacterial paste that looks like bouillon. I will plant the pine-apple seeds in this little garden. I hope their roots are not too big. I have only a little room to grow.

<|endoftext|>

PETULANT

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

A rebuke to Savathûn for her interference. Perhaps she is jealous of our direct access to the Pyramid. She led the Hive to the Darkness, but she has had eons to regret that choice. Could we exploit this?

[Personal notes, scratched in Hive leather with a flake of Ionian stone.]

I find the Guardians' collective study humiliating. Their channels are full of open speculation about me. Is she a hapless lackey of Queen Mara? An ancient proto-Hive matron? And why did she offer to trade a bag of quartz-chip datastores for a pound of breadfruit?

Savathûn, Queen of All Encrypts. Savathûn, who has distorted these messages so badly that only the tenacious Drifter can unscramble them.

Why does the Hive trickster want to prevent our contact with her god?

Simplest answer: It is all a trick. "You did exactly as I required," is her retort to any defeat. How can her plans be foiled when no one understands what they are?

But would she dare defy the Deep Itself?

Perhaps she would. Savathûn's wretched existence is bound to the need to confuse. To understand her is to destroy her. Is she still set on luring us into a black hole, some newborn universe where she can be a true god? Or was that a lie too?

Am I on the verge of some discovery that threatens her?

Jupiter is always straight above. At night, the whole sky is afire, tons of sulfur burning in the flux tube that connects Io to the Jovian pole. I burn my trash and the smoke drifts up forever. The radio howls like wolves.

I am lonely.

<|endoftext|>

CAMOUFLAGE

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

Meaning unclear. Perhaps simply a threat. "We are hidden closer than you know."

[Personal notes, knotted in a codex of Hive gut.]

Now I am hiding the truth even from my own friend. I do not want to make them distrust the Vanguard. But I am sure that this warning is genuine… and that it points to a threat in our own ranks. There are inflections to this logograph that speak of a killer hidden in plain sight.

I must not become paranoid, as Kuang Xuan did—but I think the warning is for me. I think the enemy wants me safe from my own kind, so that I will continue to receive its messages. (And share them with my friend? Is that my true purpose? Am I only a conduit for their corruption?)

I am convinced that the absolute interdict upon knowledge of the Darkness is misguided. We CAN understand the enemy without falling under its sway. If I can pass through Darkness and return, so can others. Perhaps… under my guidance.

Perhaps I can be a teacher.

Mara would be horrified if she knew—afraid for me—but my Queen herself stole Oryx's power. Can communion with the black fleet be so much more dangerous?

I planted the pine-apples. They have already blossomed. The Golden Age agriculturalists must have tweaked them for growth and hardiness. Little purple thistles—they delight me. Enina asks after their health.

I am suspicious of her. She is too eager to please. And who knows which faction that snooping Ghost reports to? Was it hers?

<|endoftext|>

FALLING

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

Another threat of imminent disaster. You declared a new Golden Age, and our enemy declares a second Collapse. They imply it is already in motion. Alarming.

[Personal notes, scored in Hive leather with a knife.]

Free fall is indistinguishable from a stable orbit until you strike the ground. Are we already falling? Is our doom fixed? Have I missed the signs this time?

I should ask Osiris. I should ask Ikora. I should ask my Queen. I should conjure wretched Toland from the Sea of Screams and wring the truth from him. But would I be believed? "There goes old Eris," they will say, "howling about fingertips and revenge again. She is lonely, so she prophesies doom."

Zavala would believe me, but he would also call me in for rest. Ikora would set me in a library and take care of me, and I would be too glad of it to leave. I cannot. I cannot. Even my Queen knows that some secrets must be kept in solitude. She will understand.

She trusts me.

I look forward to sharing a meal together.

<|endoftext|>

CONTACT

[Report by VanNet encrypted router.]

At last, another substantive message. The enemy's influence in our system may be more extensive than we realize. You must look for signs of its effect. Errors or crashes in Vex constructs. Eruptions of empowered or self-destructive Hive sorcery. Newly created Scorn. Revels and expeditions by the worshippers of the narcissist emperor.

[Personal notes, shaved into quartz with a surgical stylus.]

Our enemies are turning to the Darkness. The Red Legion is broken; the Almighty destroyed. The remaining Cabal will either join Calus's death cult or seek his daughter, Caiatl. And the Fallen—we have driven them to the edge of survival. Turned them against each other. How many will look to the Whirlwind for an advantage over their rivals? By pushing them from the Light, we have groomed more supplicants for the Darkness.

We are in an arms race. If we do not learn to use our greater enemy's power, our lesser enemies surely will.

I confronted Enina about the strange Ghost. It was not hers, she protested. I asked her why she had been so generous to me, so eager to please.

She confessed that she had come on behalf of her fireteam: Guardians who are champions in the Drifter's strange games. They wish to learn the ways of the Darkness itself. To descend into the underworld, like ancient Inanna, and return. They want what I have learned here.

How easily they might be corrupted. And yet it thrills me to know that I would not be alone in my work…

I sent her away. I fear the Witch Queen's spies.

The pine-apple blossoms are still growing. But now I stare at the purple flowers in the black soil and I wonder about poison.

I am no longer hungry.

<|endoftext|>

I. The Prisoner

In the depths of the Prison of Elders, Eramis is the Kell of No House.

Outside, she is the firebrand of House Devils, the archfiend of Twilight Gap, the Shipstealer.

But here, she has no house. Here, she reigns all on her own.

In the arena, where Eliksni runts and leaderless Cabal challenge her, she rules with a broken Arc spear for a scepter. It's the strongest weapon they'll give her, and she bends it to her will.

No matter how many times the Ether-fat guards try to send her to her death in that arena, she triumphs. She kills their champions; watches the Ether hiss from their masks. Watches the gel leak out of their suits. She begins to cherish the smell of a good fight. Blood. Sweat. Ether. Fear.

She imagines that one day, a banner will be emblazoned with a broken spear and an inverted crown.

House of Anarchy. House of Riot. House of Eramis.

House of Nothing.

When there is only one Kell, there is no need for houses.

Today, she fights a Centurion of the broken Red Legion. Money changes hands. His pauldrons are scuffed with the memory of battle, and he's been given a War Hammer. He raises it to cheers and peacocks for the crowd.

Eramis tosses her broken spear between her hands, waiting. Two glowing, pinpoint eyes focus on her as the Centurion turns. 

He swings the hammer at her, and she rolls out of the way. He swings it again, but she's behind him now and out of his sight line. Like a creature searching for a fly on its back, he struggles to find her. She jams the sparking head of her Arc spear into a notch in his armor and uses the leverage to vault herself onto his shoulder.

He rages like a niirsai beast, all fury and stupidity, and nearly throws her from his shoulders. She tries to pull her spear free, but his giant hand knocks her senseless for a moment. The spear releases at the last minute; she grabs the top. Arc energy bites her palm as she jams the tip of the blade under the edge of his helmet and into his neck.

He screams.

Before he falls, she leaps off and lands on her feet. The crowd never cheers for her. Instead, they whisper.

No prison will hold Eramiskel, they say. Eramiskel is a devil greater than the Devils themselves.

Eramiskel does not know how to lose.

<|endoftext|>

II. The Wolf

The neighboring cell holds a Wolf.

She ignores him at first. He's too greedy for her acknowledgement. Sometimes, he reminds her of the needy Dregs that followed her old Kell like carrion birds, squawking for attention and squabbling over his kills. 

What the Eliksni have lost, more than anything else, is dignity.

Eventually, the Wolf learns to intrigue her. He calls himself Praksis, and he has ideas. But he's young. He thinks every idea he conceives of is the first and best of its kind. She suspects he's never had to report directly to a Kell.

He likes to talk about machines—building them and bending them to his will. He has a mad idea about recapturing the Great Machine, binding it in Arc wire, and making it give them its power. He's been listening to the stories about Ghaul.

She lets him talk, and she asks him questions. Every question is a whetstone. Every conversation is a test, and it will only take one failure to lose her interest.

"The Great Machine made the Eliksni great," she says. "Until it left us. When it did, we were weaker than when it arrived. Why do you seek its touch again?"

"To return us to that strength," he says. His voice is muffled through the wall between them, but the arrogance comes through clear.

"How can you build strength on a foundation of weakness?" she asks. Each word is a needle. Each word should sting him with revelation. 

He remains silent.

"Did the Great Machine make the Eliksni strong, or did it draw out the strength within us?" she asks.

Again, silence.

She tilts her head back, looking at the dark ceiling of her cell. "Reliance is the greatest weakness. Remember that. You are playing with a child's stacking spheres."

He's silent so long that she begins to wonder if he was worth her time. Then, he says, "I will create new spheres."

She closes her eyes and smiles.

<|endoftext|>

III. The Traitor

On the day of the prison break, Eramis is nursing a gut wound.

It's not fatal, or at least she doesn't think so. She won the match in the arena, but not before an arrogant Captain drove a Sword into her side. It cut through her Devil robes and left a bloom of blood that reminds her of the water flowers on Riis. Athrys loved water flowers.

She's dozing when Variks arrives at her cell.

"Eramis."

She opens her eyes and then narrows them immediately. Despite the wound, she stands—too quick, she gets dizzy—and steps toward the cell door.

"Traitor," she says in greeting. 

Variks flinches. He shakes his head, lowers his eyes. Even with the door between them, she can see his fear. It buoys her. 

"There is change to come," he says quietly in Eliksni and then looks over his shoulder. His eyes dart back and forth, fearful, suspicious. He switches suddenly to the clumsy common language of the Guardians. 

"Change Variks will make, yes? Change Variks will lead. But Variks, too, will need a leader…"

Eramis laughs. "You wish to make me your prisoner-Kell?" 

"No," Variks cringes. "Variks wishes—"

"I do not care what you wish, Variks the 'loyal'," she says. There are Eliksni who change in the shadow of prison bars. They fall. They shrink. But Eramis has grown. She must show Variks that even with this steel between them, he is smaller. He is still a Dreg pretending to be a vandal. "If there is justice in this world, one day, I will dock your last two arms and leave you for dead."

Something in Variks's eyes hardens. They share a tense silence. Finally, he says, in a voice as cold as Ether, "Do not say that Variks did not try to help."

He leaves, and Eramis settles herself again on the floor of her cell.

Later that day, an alarm sounds. The warden projects a message in Variks's voice. The doors of her cell open, unprompted, as frenzied Eliksni and Cabal charge through the prison, thirsting for freedom.

<|endoftext|>

IV. The Visionary

In the first several months of her freedom, Eramis curses Misraaks the Forsaken.

He is a wish-to-be Kell, a captured traitor, a four-armed Dreg cringing before a false queen, playing pretend among the enemies of the Eliksni.

And worst of all, the most humiliating: he has beaten Eramis.

She has failed to acquire the SIVA weapon, failed to shame the Guardians, failed to reignite the fires of the House of Devils. Her failure haunts her.

Now she sits in the bridge of her stolen Ketch, straight-spined, staring. Staring at some distant point that she has long passed, one she can never return to.

Atraks, youngest of her council, watches her from across the room. She closes the gap between them.

"My Kell," she says. She has a voice like a child.

Eramis is quiet for a beat longer than she needs to be. Finally, she says, "You are too young to remember the old house. What the Devils were before."

Atraks bows her head out of respect. 

"This failure has no sting for you," Eramis bites, bitter.

Atraks keeps her head bowed. Then, slowly, she raises it. Her eyes dart over Eramis's face, searching. "I am too young to remember," she agrees. "But my eyes are clear. I can see what the Devils will be."

Eramis opens her mouth to remind Atraks of her place, and then pauses.

Something in her mind has unlocked.

She stands to her full, towering height, stretches her second set of arms. 

"No," she says. Clarity has descended on her like a Riis rain shower. "The Devils are nothing." 

She begins to walk out of the room, purpose in her step, fire reignited in her belly. "The Devils are dead."

House of Anarchy. House of Ruin.

House of Eramis.

"We must become something new."

<|endoftext|>

V. The Nightmare

As she dissolves the old bonds of House of Devils, Eramis is haunted by shadowed dreams. In one, she relives Twilight Gap.

She lunges, driving a sword into the belly of a Guardian-soldier, grunting as they yell and crumple forward. Another Guardian rushes at her head-on before she has time to yank the Sword free. But she hears the sound of a Shock Rifle firing behind her… and leans abruptly to the right as the shot flies by and hits the Guardian before her with full force.

She looks back to see Kridis, shimmering with the purple glow of the Void as her Servitor shields her. Kridis tips her head in acknowledgement of Eramis and turns to fire the rifle into another cluster of Guardians.

Eramis rips her Sword free and forges ahead. They are closing in on the city now. Guardians are falling all around her. 

They are so close.

Fast, heavy footfalls come up behind her—Phylaks, ferocious and bloodthirsty, shouts to Eramis as she attacks a towering, broad-shouldered Guardian. Eramis ducks and slides out of the way. As Phylaks makes contact with the Guardian's head, Eramis slashes the beast across his side with her Sword. He loses his balance, and she kicks his hip, tipping him toward Phylaks.

In these days, Phylaks almost always fights with her bare hands. She breaks his neck.

Eramis pushes forward.

They are so close…

A ferocious laugh erupts to her right, and then the thundering blast of a Scorch Cannon. Taniks, a blur of whirring machinery, creates explosions of earth and flesh and blood all around them. He keeps laughing.

So close.

But then… before her, a blinding flash of gold. She sees Eliksni burst into flame and ash around her as a gun fires one shot after another. Pools of shining light are the only trace of the victims. The Guardian wielding the gun is like a tiny sun.

Another shot. Kridis's Servitor. Another—Kridis herself. Eramis remembers losing, but she does not remember this. Doesn't remember seeing Phylaks evaporate into blowing ash. Doesn't remember the shot that hits her in the chest, or the burning fire that explodes through her limbs, or her own scream…

She wakes with a jolt, breathless.

<|endoftext|>

VI. The Herald

The dreams persist. They are old memories, but twisted: battling a Guardian in the Prison of Elders and falling before their Light; Athrys banging on the walls of her sleeping pod, calling for the Great Machine. 

She can't sleep. Something in the dreams tells her to travel to Earth's Moon, and she follows the sign.

On the Moon, she fights through corpse-stinking Hive like swarms of flies. Their fetid stench is unbearable, worse than the carcass piles at the prison, worse than the battlefield of Twilight Gap. They eat and breathe death, and she resents their breath upon her, so she cuts through them like so much tall grass. 

A Knight stalks her deep into the catacombs, staying on the edge of her hearing, matching her footsteps. She lets it make the first strike, and when it does, she cracks its exoskeleton armor with her Sword. The thrill of the fight—hearing the Knight howl as it meets death—is almost comforting. A reprieve from her unsettling dreams.

She's painted with Hive blood as she continues her advance, and when she finally comes upon the ship, a familiar sight causes her to freeze in her tracks.

She remembers this fleet.

She remembers seeing them in the sky like black arrows. She remembers the space where the Great Machine was, and then the blank space where it wasn't.

It was all a lesson in dependence, one that took many years to learn.

This time, the black arrow speaks to her. She knows it's not Eliksni. It's not one of the clumsy tongues of Earth, nor the lilting speech of the Reef. It is something else: a whisper. But one that is so loud and somehow understood so perfectly.

Stop waiting, it says.

No one is coming for you.

You must be your own salvation.

She feels something in all four of her hands, a tingle, a buzz. It reminds her of the broken Arc spear. She clenches and unclenches her fists, staring at the sleek surface of the ship. There's power here. Power that she can grasp.

But not yet.

A waking dream strikes her like lightning. She's transported. The bleak, gray dust of the Moon falls away, and she stands in a white plain of whipping ice and snow. It blinds her, chases her breath away.

Then she is on the Moon again, and the whispers are silent.

She knows where she must go next.

<|endoftext|>

VII. The Scribe

Eramis and Variks stand in the shadow of a half-constructed city. Her people have salvaged bits and pieces from the Eliksni hideouts across the system and lashed them to the ruins of a Golden Age facility, building something new from something old. It's Eliksni flesh on the bones of humanity's failure, nestled in the icy tundra of Europa.

She watches Variks's face as he looks up. There is something familiar there. An awe that she remembers from a long time ago.

"It will be a new Riis," she says, raising her eyes to the scaffolding before them. "A new home for our people. No more running. No more living on the outskirts."

Variks looks away finally to meet Eramis's eyes. "What of the Devils?" He speaks Eliksni. It surprises her.

"Old names," she says, dismissive. "Leave the old names and the old ways in the past."

Just as she remembers, Variks doesn't let his awe stand in the way of practicality. His gaze has turned appraising. "And why choose this place? Why choose this frozen moon?"

"I saw it in a dream."

She can feel his skepticism. She doesn't blame him, actually—since the prison break, he's been hiding somewhere, some forgotten corner of the system, waiting for judgment to come. He gifted his people with freedom, and then built himself a cell of isolation. He can't see beyond what he thinks he knows.

"And why did you call for me?" he asks. There is a hardness in his voice. "After everything. We are not allies, Eramis."

"Old ways," she says again. "If the Eliksni are to survive, we need to abandon all memory of division. Petty squabbles, house politics… I want to wipe it all clean." 

She looks up at the scaffolding again. "This will be a new world, Variks. New ideas. New stories. We will be known and remembered as something new."

Variks follows her gaze. Now his voice has softened. "And why me?"

Eramis turns to face him fully now. He fears her still—she sees it in the hunch of his shoulders, the way he turns his face to the side, as if looking at her head-on will hurt his eyes.

"In the new world," she says. "I will need a scribe."

<|endoftext|>

VIII. The Council

"Old friend." 

There's a bloody grin in Phylaks's voice as she clasps Eramis's hand and pulls her close to her chest. Kridis stands behind Phylaks, tall and ethereal. They're exactly as Eramis remembers them. Phylaks chuckles. "I always said no prison will hold her."

Eramis laughs, easy and familiar. It's as if nothing has changed. She's transported back to her House Devils days. The days of assignments in the darkest, grimmest parts of her old stomping grounds: the Cosmodrome, with no one but these two for company. They laid waste to members of encroaching houses, razed human settlements to the ground, dreamed about the day they could challenge and strike down their own Kell to take up the mantle for themselves.

But Kridis looks behind Eramis, not at her. And soon, Phylaks does the same. Her eyes narrow. She lurches forward, past Eramis, to grab Variks up by his neck.

"Traitor Dreg," Phylaks hisses and spits. "Cringing little—" 

Variks scrambles and kicks like a creature in a trap. "Phylaks," he gasps.

Praksis and Atraks stand to the side, waiting to meet the veterans of the old house. They watch without concern, though Praksis looks pleased. They do not intervene.

Phylaks tightens her fist.

"Let him go," Eramis says. 

Phylaks looks at Eramis, and then drops Variks. She says nothing, but Eramis can feel her disapproval. Kridis's too. Doubt creeps into their minds…

"His crimes are undeniable," Eramis says, dismissive. She doesn't look at Variks but hears his tortured breathing as he scrambles back, away from Phylaks. "But he's all that remains of House Judgment." 

"You've no special love for scribes," Kridis says skeptically.

Eramis inclines her head. "No. But a scribe who can draw the ear of the Reef Eliksni?"

Phylaks grunts in understanding but still looks unimpressed. She returns to Kridis's side. Kridis, on the other hand, looks pleased. "Clever," she says. 

Before they can question her further, Eramis changes the subject. "But I didn't call you here for politics." She gestures with one of her secondary arms. "Come. Let me show you what we've built."

<|endoftext|>

IX. The Kell of Darkness

When the obsidian ship descends on Europa, Eramis is prepared. Her council by her side—Variks, Phylaks, Kridis, Praksis, and Atraks—she greets its arrival with bated breath.

The foreign whispers return. This time, they say…

Do not wait to be chosen. Choose for yourself. 

Choose salvation.

Eramis boards the ship and chooses strength.

It is in this moment, as she holds this cold and ancient power in her hands, that House Salvation is born.

<|endoftext|>

X. The Warrior

I am Phylaks, once-warrior of House Devils, once-child of home-Riis. I speak now to Eliksni still-scattered. Listen close. There is no repeating. 

Death to House Devils! Ashes to Home-Riis! I cast off these useless things, and I pledge my life here to Riis-reborn, to Eramis and her House Salvation! 

I fought many battles and found no warrior above the knife-will of Eramiskel. Together, we sieged the walls of the Earth-city with weapons in every claw! Side by side, we spilled life-force across the system. No Ketch was out of her reach! No death could seize her! Even enchained by the wretched Reef-born, she grew only stronger in mind and body. 

Chelchis, Skolas, Aksis—resurrect them all and watch her reduce them to Dregs. Her new-claimed power is beyond any they wielded. Beyond any our people ever knew. 

And she will grant it to all who unite under her banner! Even now, as lieutenant, I share in that with her. Side by side, our bodies thrum with the same ice-cold energy. 

Energy to drag the Great Machine from the sky and fortify our new city with its metal hide! Energy to defeat the wretched of this system and feed our children with the battle-bounty! 

Energy to reign beyond a thousand lifetimes. 

All you, now hear: I am Phylaks, the Warrior of Darkness! Life to Riis-reborn! Victory to the Kell of Darkness! Glory to the House Salvation!

<|endoftext|>

XI. The Technocrat

This is Praksis, the Technocrat speaking from Riis-reborn. It has become evident that, even as our numbers grow, many Eliksni have yet to accept our Kell's invitation to take part in the long-awaited progress of our people.  

Thus, it falls on me to make an argument I did not think I would have to make… No. That is false. I did anticipate some degree of cowardice, obstinacy, stupidity—whatever you might call it—but only in the beginning, when we lacked evidence for our endeavor.

At this late stage, however, when Eramiskel succeeds where all others failed… Alas, I might find it hard to believe if I could not see the empty spaces in our half-filled capitol. Or heard the whispers of doubt sown by the weakling of House Light. 

Yes, even from this moon of some distance, I can tap into your transmission, Misraaks. Others may call you Forsaken, but I dub you Foolish, clinging still to that moon-sized obsolescence. Do you forget the lesson we teach our children? A Ketch laden with the unnecessary will never fly. 

As for those of you following in his example, placing your faith in peace with our enemies… well, what good are the words of a scientist if you ignore what is before your own eyes? I can only encourage you to truly think. What proofs have your alleged allies offered of their loyalty? Their willingness to share equally with you? How have you benefitted, truly benefitted, from them?

If you answer, "None yet," or "I don't know," I admire your patience. For myself, for my Kell, for all of us of House Salvation, the time has grown too long and the failures too many to invest in such a flimsy experiment. 

The Eliksni must update our approach if we are ever to rise. Either join us as we march toward progress…

Or be swept aside with the vestigialities.

<|endoftext|>

XII. The Priestess

Eliksni! Kridis, the Priestess, cries out to you across the abyss! As we speak, the once-Shipstealer brings the promise of our people to pass. Soon we will rise to true prominence, united under one banner and one Kell—with no gods but ourselves. 

For who withstood the Whirlwind? Who pieced together Ketches and armories out of ruins and scraps? Who roamed the vast expanses for generations, subsisting on drips of Ether and facing endless battle? Who survived?! 

We did! Not the so-called Great Machine nor the idols we crafted in its image. The Eliksni survived! 

So why do we pine still for a light that shines not on us? Why do we kneel to the Servitors that we created? 

Because we are afraid. Because—for all that we've suffered, for how long we've traveled—we clung tight to the belief that we were meant for a higher existence, meant to evolve beyond our current forms. If only the Whirlwind hadn't cut off our people from godliness too soon.  

This, I believed as well. I mourned the death of our collective potential in our rituals and rites. Felt the acid-burn of despair in my body as I received succor from our Prime Servitor. Dreamt of the day I turned my weeping eyes up to the sky and found it empty of salvation. 

I was blind.

But Eramis removed the Light from my eyes, and now I see.

So I entreat you, children of Riis. Come receive clarity for yourselves! Witness the greatness of the House Salvation and the Kell who leads it. Rejoice, for she who brought our Servitors low where they belong will do the same to the Great Machine!

The light holds nothing for us now. Long we have traveled in darkness. Now is our time to embrace it!

<|endoftext|>

XIII. The Wildcard

I am Atraks, the Wildcard, and I have been charged by my Kell to speak to the youth of the Eliksni. Those who, like me, have never known a life that wasn't wandering. Who have no memories of Riis, only tales of glorious cities under glowing green skies passed down from our elders. The very same ones who moan that we have never felt true peace, which can only be found under the shade of the Great Machine.

Well, I, for one, am glad for it! I could not be more grateful the Whirlwind came to slice the ties before I was entangled too! They told us it was destruction that visited that day, but what if it was salvation? They called us unlucky to have been born in the dark of deep space, but we were born free! They say we lack the Light to truly see, but when we first opened our eyes, there was nothing to block our view of the vastness of the universe.

So why do we let the nostalgia-blind point the way? Why do we carry their dead dreams? They have turned their backs on the future! I say, let them! All the easier to strike them down and finish the metamorphosis started long ago.

Then, you can join us on Riis-reborn.

<|endoftext|>

XIV. The Scarred

Ha! So, the Kell of Winter seeks the aid of Taniks, the Scarred. How formal! Wasn't long ago you called me self-serving scum and spat at my banner-less armor. I might've ripped each and every one of your arms from you then. And torn off your legs for good measure. 

But I sensed one day, you'd come begging for my services. Lucky I am such a vulgar mercenary after all, eh? It works in your favor now, that I hold payment above pride. Payment not just in Glimmer. In blood and battle too. No one Kell, no one house has been able to slake my thirst. No one job, either. 

Though… a break-out of the Prison of Elders might come close. 

But for Aksor? You ask me to pass over far-greater warriors for that impotent Archon? You think he will serve you better than Peekis, the Disavowed? Than Pirsis, Pallas-Bane? Than Calzar, than Drekthas? 

You'd choose Aksor over the Shipstealer?! Eramis, who led the charge at the Final Attempt? Who hurled herself at the wretched Lightbearers, who moved so quickly I would've sworn she had eight arms? When your pathetic Winter-ones followed in her footsteps, they had to wade through the flood of life-force she left in her wake. 

And still you wonder why I refuse my house-pledge. You could conquer the system, but you'd rather adhere to these arbitrary customs. Aksor belongs to Winter, and Eramis does not. 

Twice my usual price. The fee is for my restraint. It will take what little I have to free Aksor over the fiercest of Eliksni fighters.

<|endoftext|>

I. KETCH

There is a saying among the Eliksni:

Ketch is Kin, Kin are All.

Out in the Reef, the detritus of civilization is all there is. Out in the Reef, ruins are as much landmarks as planets and moons. The flotsam of derelict colony ships from the Golden Age flood the atmosphere along with the ruined hulks of Hive ships from campaigns fought against the Awoken. For the Eliksni, finding the wreckage of a Ketch is like finding the ruins of a family home, and all the emotions that come with it. But the societal scars of Eliksni clans have long since vanished, and for those who bend a knee to the Spider in the remote corner of the Reef known as the Tangled Shore, they have lost the privilege of such sentimentality.

A salvage crew was dispatched the week after a small scouting party from the Spider's personal fiefdom spotted the wreckage of a Ketch belonging to the lost House of Kings. The crew chief on the operation, an ambitious Vandal named Kosis, had shed her attachments to a life within that very house years ago. But the choice to leave something behind and the act of doing so are two entirely different things.

Kosis insisted first on surveying the wreck herself, alone, before allowing her team near it. They were to take anything with even a shred of value after unceremoniously cutting the vessel from bow to stern. As they marked it for dissection, she watched them from a nearby escarpment. She looked around and carefully revealed the small bundle of vestiges she personally salvaged from the Ketch: a ceremonial washing bowl, a child's musical instrument, and the cracked ceramic effigy of a Servitor. Kosis covered them with a tattered cloth the color of the setting sun—branded with the symbol of a house she no longer called hers—and buried them.

It was the only dignity this ship would receive.

<|endoftext|>

II. RATIONS

As dusk fell over the frontier of the Tangled Shore, the salvage crew assembled their shelters in a loose circle around the downed Ketch. The Dregs begrudgingly established guard posts on overlooks surrounding the camp, with nighttime sentry rotations to match, and the crew's scrap-work Shank orbited the site on alarm mode.

Savek seethed as she and the other Dregs dug out their guard posts. These precautions were meant to deter competing parties from biting the crew's claim, but it was a waste of energy this far out. The foreboding quiet would betray any approaching Pikes.

Once camp was established, each crew member received an Ether ration commensurate with their station. Savek tried not to hunger as she watched Kosis inhale three full portions of the life-giving essence; more than twice her own share. The Spider had given them just two tanks—partly as a cost-saving measure, and partly as an incentive to get the job done quickly.

Later that night, a crewmate woke Savek from her deep slumber. "You're late. Northwestern posting. Two-cycle shift," the Dreg grumbled. Savek clicked her mandibles in irritation and trudged wearily into the deep violet gloaming of the Shore.

Savek was nestled in her dugout at the top of a wide dune, trying not to fall back asleep, when she heard a faint whisper. An urgent, familiar call from the far side of the dune, away from camp. Savek bolted upright. Maybe someone wandered away from camp. Or maybe, she thought subversively, someone secured a portion of Ether and needs an accomplice. The latter possibility sent her scuttling down the dune.

When she reached the bottom of the slope, she found herself alone. Yet the beckoning whisper persisted, voluminous as an explosion and gentle as a caress. It came from a rocky cave no larger than Servitor.

Savek drew her rusted Shock Pistol, clicked on her light, and peered into the cave. There, she saw it: the small black tower, poking gently out of the ground, like a babe in swaddling.

<|endoftext|>

III. WORTH

Savek returned to the camp as quickly as possible. Her excited description of her discovery was bold enough to spark Kosis's curiosity. Savek was keenly aware that failure to deliver on such a claim would be punishable by more than the docking of an arm.

They gathered two Dregs, but by the time the four reached the structure, Savek could see it had changed. Where once only darkness filled the space within its frame, a hint of sickly green light now shone. Tendrils of smoke wafted from the apertures, as though it were an incense brazier.

Kosis immediately strode forward and assessed the nodule crowning the surface of the barren rock. As the Vandal knelt beside the structure, she saw deformed latticework-like veins protruding through and eroding the stone, as though the object was grown rather than constructed. Kosis waved the Dregs over.

Pressure began to build inside her head, behind her eyes, as the ground rumbled. They sprang back, away from the structure; the artifice sprang to life in turn. It twisted its way out of the ground, spiraling upward and outward, spreading open like a terrible biomechanical flower. Only when the eruption halted did Kosis feel the pressure in her head recede.

It was undeniably of Hive origin, but Kosis had never seen anything of the sort. This implication, this realization—perhaps this was novel to the Spider as well. If that were true, this piece of "living" Hive technology would be worth more than Ether. Perhaps…

Kosis gestured to the now towering length of living metal. "Take it apart."

<|endoftext|>

IV. RETURN

Four-meter lengths of wafer-thin metal from the Hive artifact were laid out side by side amid the scrap pulled from the innards of the Ketch. Even disassembled, the Hive tower was intricate. Multi-layered. Woven metal latticework coiled in ever-tightening concentric cylinders. Each could spin independently within the larger housing. Maddeningly complex armatures were contained within, lubricated by gristly, living tissue.

Kosis had marked the Hive salvage specifically for the Spider's attention. It wouldn't be shipped off to marketplaces and storehouses like the remains of the Ketch—finds like this were of special interest to him. Kosis considered sending a missive ahead of the shipment but thought better of it. If she weren't there to present the find herself, another ambitious Vandal or Dreg might try and take the credit. Spider would probably promote the usurper strictly out of appreciation for their cunning.

Kosis was so focused on ensuring the safety of her salvage that she hadn't noticed Savek and the other Dregs running into camp from the direction of the cave. Kosis stood, Sword in hand, half-expecting a mutiny. But from the fear in Savek's eyes, Kosis quickly realized it was anything but.

"It returned!" was all Savek could exclaim. The Dregs confirmed: the dismantled structure had regrown in a matter of hours. Kosis ordered the trio to lead her back to the site, to see it with her own eyes. A part of her yearned to see it again.

Much to Kosis's disbelief, their assertion was true. The structure stood as tall as ever, emanating its hideous green light. A pang of dread shook Kosis to the core. Her mind flooded with memories of childhood stories about the Whirlwind and the onslaught of the Hive.

"Leave it," she ordered. "Leave it and do not return." It was a command, though one born of fear.

The tower whispered an unheard counteroffer into her subconscious.

<<Come.>>

<<See.>>

<|endoftext|>

V. WHISPERS

Savek found herself standing at the mouth of the cave when she woke. The first touch of violet pre-dawn was sharpening the horizon. She stared at the Hive construct, her head crooked as her eyes traced the languid movement of its concentric metal turbines. She inhaled its luminous green vapor.

<<Seek the whispers—they are faint, but they are calling.>> 

She remembered putting in a full day's work on the Ketch, carefully disassembling the remnants of the gyroscopic stabilization system. The delicate assignment required her normally sure-handed touch, but that day, she was distracted and unfocused. In a moment of inattention, she cracked the gyroscope's ceramic housing, reducing its resale value by half.

<<The cutting word is a doorway—the first syllable of hated salvation.>> 

"You've ruined it. That's coming out of your share." Kosis was suddenly standing behind her. How long had Savek been staring at the broken gyroscope?

"Flaws diminish the salvage; half portion of Ether and double guard shift. Another mistake, and we leave you behind." Those last words were less literal and more a euphemism mutated over time through Eliksni cultural drift. The Dregs lowered their heads as Kosis strode off in the direction of the Ether tanks, then turned their palms toward Savek in sympathy.

<<Cleanse thyself of your decay, then will the mind be free to understand the value of transgression.>>

Savek remembered dragging her exhausted body to her guard post. She remembered watching the lazy debris of the Reef float by. She remembered speaking with someone in the darkness. Someone reassuring and powerful. Who was it?

She tore her eyes away from the obelisk and surveyed her body in the thin morning light. Her dry skin flaked. Connective tissue wasted at her joints, and a sickly crust had developed around her mandibles. She was emaciated from lack of sleep and Ether. Her hunger was a void, slowly filling with green vapor.

<<When imagined, your potential will infect, and spread.>>

<|endoftext|>

VI. SACRIFICE

Kosis dimmed her datapad display and did some mental calculations. Even accounting for the delay brought on by the Hive artifact, they were still far behind schedule. If the situation didn't change soon, compromises would have to be made. Either she had to return with less salvage than anticipated, or she had to stretch the Ether reserves to buy more time. She'd have to reduce her own share. Or reduce the size of her crew. Kosis knew what Spider would choose.

She began cycling through crew members, deciding which one to cull, when the sudden silence of the moment struck her. No Arc cutters sizzled. No grunts of effort or idle chatter. No clangs of loaded salvage. Just the empty wind and the whir of the rusty Shank making its usual rounds.

A dull pressure built in her thorax as she surveyed the abandoned work site. She searched for any explanation except the one she knew to be true. With the holster unclipped on her Shock Pistol, she set off toward the Hive construct.

There they were, sitting idly in the dirt, staring into the slowly churning spire. They paid her no mind. She tried to speak, but only dull clicks escaped from her mandibles. When she finally found her voice, it came across as a croak, barely audible above the deafening whisper of the tower. "You lot. Get back to work."

Several of them turned and stared at her quizzically. They seemed confused. The smallest Dreg and newest to the crew, stood up. He approached her calmly, his voice the howl of the Whirlwind. "Those born only to live cannot see eternity, nor are they welcome here. If you dwell on that which is beyond your grasp you—"

The peal of the Vandal's Shock Pistol tore through the air, rupturing the crew's trance. Several leapt up while other scrabbled away in disorientation. They stared as the young Dreg slumped to the ground, his face disfigured by a blistering hole. The whispering had ceased.

In the silence that followed, Kosis found the rest of her voice. "I just extended our Ether rations by three days." She backed away, her Pistol held level. "Hurry up. We're leaving as soon as that wreck is stripped."

<|endoftext|>

VII. SWORD

The Ketch that once belonged to the House of Kings lay on its side now, the vessel's underbelly stripped down to the curving superstructure supports. A half-kilometer of power cabling spooled out from the middle of ship, forming a path that lead to the salvage team's tents. From the escarpment overlooking the salvage site, the Ketch looked like the disemboweled remains of some great beast.

Kosis wondered, as she sipped on a hand-tank of Ether, if this is what her people had become. Carrion birds to the rotting carcasses of their society. She wondered how many more generations of Eliksni it would take before the old ways were entirely forgotten. If any Eliksni born today would know how to play the instrument now buried on the overlook.

Would her daughters be proud of how she had chosen to survive? She wondered where their bones were scattered. Wondered if they suffered when the House of Kings was torn apart.

The sound of footsteps pulled Kosis from her thoughts. She affixed her Ether flask to her belt and rose to greet whomever was coming. It was Savek. Alone. "Your shift isn't over," Kosis firmly reminded the Dreg.

Savek lunged forward with a Sword—Kosis's own weapon, stolen from her tent. She sucked in a breath, which might have exited her as a cry of confusion had the Dreg not buried the Sword hilt-deep in her throat. Ether sprayed into the air, comingling with blood.

The blade ground against her spine as she slid, helpless, down the length of the Sword. As she fell to the ground, her vision tunneled dark, her extremities numb. Savek screamed a primal and unfathomable wail.

The Vandal's last thoughts were of the Kell of Kells.

Then, nothing.

<|endoftext|>

VIII. UNMADE

Savek supplicates before the obelisk. It looms over her, listing from the cave entrance into the bruise-colored sky. Its black metal surface writhes and undulates like wormflesh. It whispers of victory and transcendence.

<<To claim evolution one must be unmade.>> 

The throb of Ether courses through her prone form. She can feel the longing itch of her arm stumps that yearn for regrowth. Sickly sweet Ether leaks from her body, mixing with that of her crewmates.

<<Flesh and mind are but cages—become unbound, or remain ever unworthy.>> 

Savek's claws dig convulsively into the grainy dirt as her body ruptures. Her skin gives a grisly rip as her viscera expands beyond its confines. The thick glow of Ether is joined by another more ravenous force. Plasm spurts from connective tissue as her body swells, molting and regrowing in an eruption of chitin.

<<Your prison of the flesh is being unmade, your mind freed—such glories do not come easy.>> 

<<Allow the flesh to give of itself, that it may surrender to the coming evolution.>> 

There, kneeling before her new god, Savek's mind is broken and remade in continuous motion. She watches as her memories are deconstructed into images without association. She observes her identity dissected into the unknowable motives of a stranger. She watches herself transform from She into It.

<<You will know—through the pain, through the fear—there is no longer a you that was, only what comes next, and all the pain to follow.>> 

<<As the old self falls away there will be only suffering.>> 

It raises its head for the first time, and finds the tower likewise transformed. The black spire opens like a birthing cavity, yawing forth a new realm. The breach draws the creature into a massive cathedral hall with malachite suns roiling overhead. Here, the whispers are all-consuming.

<<As the old self falls away there will be only suffering.>> 

<<There will be only suffering.>> 

<<Only suffering.>>

<|endoftext|>

Bray Lab Records - CONFIDENTIAL

Locate and destroy Fallen drones across Europa to unlock pages of this lore book and learn about the secret experiments Clovis Bray was performing within the walls of his laboratories.

<|endoftext|>

TEST NO: 142 - Radiolarian Fluid Ingestion

RECORD: 3923E112$EUR-0.280
SUBJECT: Security Log E-098
TEST NO: 142 - Radiolarian Fluid Ingestion - Trial 1
STATUS: CONFIDENTIAL
IDENTITIES: C. Bray I, J. Wong, Patient 01
LOCATION: Europa – Deep Stone Crypt

[C.B.] How does it taste?

[P01] Metallic. Coarse. Something else…

[C.B.] Does it feel digestible?

[P01] It feels… nourishing. It's cool. I can feel it making its way through me.

[J.W.] This is encouraging. No immediate effects.

[P01] No… I… wait. (wincing)

[C.B.] What is it? Talk to us.

[P01] Feels like… it's attacking my stomach— (vomiting)

[J.W.] Sir, his heart rate is spiking and his pressure is dropping. Damn it, he's losing fluids at an alarming rate.

[C.B.] Exciting, isn't it? What's going to happen?

[J.W.] He's going to die. That's what's going to happen.

[C.B.] Fine. Send in the medic units.

[J.W.] Not sure if it's safe. We don't know if this is contagious. Could go airborne.

[C.B.] How else are we going to find out?

[J.W.] …We send in the medic units.

<|endoftext|>

TEST NO: 167 - Radiolarian Fluid Injection

RECORD: 4087E201$EUR-0.311
SUBJECT: Security Log E-127
TEST NO: 167 - Radiolarian Fluid Injection - Trial 1
STATUS: CONFIDENTIAL
IDENTITIES: C. Bray I, J. Wong, Patient 02
LOCATION: Europa – Deep Stone Crypt

[C.B.] That's twice now. Direct consumption and direct injection yield similar results.

[J.W.] Airborne has been disproven, but direct contact with the fluid still produces corruption.

[C.B.] I wish you wouldn't call it that. It's not corruption. It's reprogramming. I'd like to bring Helga into these sessions. She has an engineer's mind; she'll find the workarounds we need. Slimmer units, stronger materials, alternate power sources.

[J.W.] I would advise against that. She's… the pursuit of science isn't always her top priority.

[C.B.] When she sees what we're seeing—the precipice of a new age—she'll fall in line.

[J.W.] I like working without jurisdiction. Wasn't that the point of us coming out here? With her track record, it'll only be a matter of time before the human ethics organizations come down on us—

[C.B.] When did I ask for your opinion on this? Send in the clean-up crew and prep the next patient.

[J.W.] …Sir. His arm… it's transforming…

[C.B.] Would you look at that.

[J.W.] It appears to be replacing cells on an individual level.

[C.B.] Can it be contained? Is there a way to stop the spread?

[J.W.] We can amputate, but at this rate, I doubt we'd be fast enough.

[C.B.] Perhaps exposure to Clarity would slow it down? We need to control this, study the arm. If he's going to die anyway, maybe we just amputate and pair the arm with another patient.

[J.W.] But we don't currently have any other… Oh.

[C.B.] Wouldn't you like to have a shiny new arm? Don't you want to be stronger? Invulnerable?

[J.W.] …

[C.B.] Don't act so surprised. You know what we're working towards.

<|endoftext|>

TEST NO: 259 - Transtemporal Crossing

RECORD: 4987E230$EUR-0.403
SUBJECT: Security Log E-205
TEST NO: 259 - Transtemporal Crossing - Trial 3
STATUS: CONFIDENTIAL
IDENTITIES: C. Bray I, J. Wong, Participants 01–05
LOCATION: Europa – Eventide Colony

[C.B.] Send them through.

[J.W.] //Participants, step forward through the portal. Maintain your grasp on the tether. Count to ten and step back out.// Final bet: older or younger?

[C.B.] Older, but if they come back younger, I'm going in next.

[J.W.] (laughs) I think we should get through more clinical trials before you subject yourself, sir.

[C.B.] Here we go. They're through.

[J.W.] Countdown: 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1… //Pull the tether and bring them back.//

[C.B.] Where are they?

[J.W.] The tether appears to be stuck.

[C.B.] Pull harder.

[J.W.] //Tighten the winch.// It looks like it may snap. Maybe they like what they've found.

[C.B.] Or something is holding them there.

[J.W.] It's giving. Here they come. (whip noise) (splashing sound)

[C.B.] Oh, disgusting… you smell that? It's permeating through the glass. What are we looking at?

[J.W.] Ugh, looks to be complete cellular deterioration. They're just… mushy goop, for lack of a better term.

[C.B.] Guess I won't be going in yet after all.

[J.W.] Seems there are still some things man was not meant to conquer.

[C.B.] If you believe that, you're in the wrong place, Justin. Just needs a little fine tuning.

<|endoftext|>

TEST NO: 312 - Exo Arm Attachment

RECORD: 5002E290$EUR-0.435
SUBJECT: Security Log E-222
TEST NO: 312 - Exo Arm Attachment - Trial 4
STATUS: CONFIDENTIAL
IDENTITIES: H. Rasmussen, C. Bray I, Patient 32
LOCATION: Europa – Eventide Colony

[H.R.] //How about the index finger?//

[P32] Uhh… no.

[H.R.] Extremities remain unresponsive. //Are there any sensations at all?//

[P32] Phantom ones. I have an itch I'd like to scratch. My chest feels heavy, like someone is sitting on me.

[H.R.] While nerve endings are attached to the mechanism successfully, we are not generating action potentials.

[C.B.] This isn't working, Helga.

[H.R.] Still progress. You'll have to settle for that.

[C.B.] I typically don't settle for anything.

[P32] Hello? I'm struggling… to breathe.

[H.R.] He's experiencing a massive myocardial infarction. //Send in the medic units.// I fear my earlier hypothesis was correct, and the human body in its current evolution cannot sustain the physical exertion the machine parts demand.

[C.B.] Then we should evolve.

[H.R.] Oh, okay. Let me just jump ahead one hundred million years real quick.

[C.B.] We've had some interesting advancements in post-transcriptional modification—gene splicing—with primates, fish, and some birds. What if we built stronger Humans? Could they withstand this process?

[H.R.] I'm an engineer, not a geneticist. I don't know if your ape-man can wield a metal arm.

[C.B.] That's such a reductive and tasteless comprehension of what I'm proposing.

[H.R.] He's flatlined. We've lost him.

[C.B.] Well you know what they say. If at first you don't succeed…

<|endoftext|>

TEST NO: 088 - Nuclear Power Exo

RECORD: 0872E136$SS-0.032
SUBJECT: Security Log A-123
TEST NO: 088 - Nuclear Power Exo - Trial 01
STATUS: CONFIDENTIAL
IDENTITIES: C. Bray I, D. Chambers
LOCATION: Morning Star Orbital Platform / Europa – Coordinates Unknown

---Incoming call from MSOP. Caller ID: C. Bray---

[D.C.] Sir, we're prepped and standing by for you order.

[C.B.] And the reactor is stable?

[D.C.] Stable and ready for installation in the Exo body.

[C.B.] If this works, generations will praise the work accomplished today.

[D.C.] Sir, if you don't mind me saying, the team would have liked you to be here personally. Would have been a vote of confidence for them.

[C.B.] May I remind you, it was your insistence we find an alternate power source to Clarity, even though it already has proven to be a success. Besides, if that reactor explodes with me present, it would be the single greatest loss our civilization could suffer and would damn us all for eons to come. Now get on with it.

[D.C.] Yes, sir. //Install the core.// Are you able to see well enough?

[C.B.] I'm watching with bated breath.

[D.C.] Calculated distance of 3 millimeters… 2 millimeters… 1 millimeter… We're in. //Lock the chassis. Switch on the alternator and reroute power supply.//

[C.B.] Nothing is happening.

[D.C.] (sighs) It would appear not.

[C.B.] If nuclear power isn't a sufficient power source, perhaps there are other uses…

[D.C.] It's non-compatible, at the very least.

[C.B.] It is interesting to note that the chassis may be able to house other forms of power with similarly destructive potential. We may have a walking bomb on our hands.

---Call ended.---

<|endoftext|>

TEST NO: 109 - Food Supplement

RECORD: 1224E209$SS-0.113
SUBJECT: Security Log A-280
TEST NO: 109 - Food Supplement - Trial 15
STATUS: CONFIDENTIAL
IDENTITIES: C. Bray I, A. Fältskog, Patients 27-31
LOCATION: Morning Star Orbital Platform

[C.B.] Okay, Agatha, what do you have for me?

[A.F.] We took your proposal and ran with it. We've distilled and condensed enough nutrients and proteins down to a single pill that should eliminate the need for sustenance within your average patient for 10 years.

[C.B.] That's a start, but I'd like to get that number higher. I'm tired of stopping to eat. Imagine what this can do for productivity, not to mention military efforts. Next on the chopping block is sleep.

[A.F.] We administered the pill 24 hours ago to five patients.

[C.B.] Let's see how they're acclimating.

[A.F.] //Patient 27, how is your appetite?//

[P27] I don't have one. I miss food, but I think it's habitual.

[A.F.] //Patient 28?//

[P28] My stomach feels full.

[P30] Too full, actually.

[A.F.] //Anyone else experiencing this?//

(murmurs of confirmation)

[C.B.] That's to be expected, I suppose. Must be a bizarre sensation.

[P29] Ma'am… I'm actually feeling pretty sick. (groans)

[P31] Is there a bathroom I could use?

[A.F.] //After we conclude this check-in.//

[P27] I don't think it can wait.

[P28] Ugh…what's happening… (groans) My stomach…

[C.B.] Their stomachs are expanding. Fix it.

[A.F.] I… uh, can't.

(groans) (retching) (screams) (burst) (burst) (burst) (burst) (burst) (fluid spilling)

[C.B.] Agatha, clearly we have not found our solution. I'll leave this, hm, mess in your incapable hands. Don't ever bring me up to witness an event like this again. Disgusting.

<|endoftext|>

TEST NO: 140 - Clarity Control Exposure

RECORD: 1560E308$SS-0.287
SUBJECT: Security Log A-322
TEST NO: 140 - Clarity Control Exposure - Trial 03
STATUS: CONFIDENTIAL
IDENTITIES: C. Bray I, M. Muñiz
LOCATION: Morning Star Orbital Platform

[M.M.] Sir, we have reports coming in from Clarity Control.

[C.B.] About time. Well?

[M.M.] They're dead, sir.

[C.B.] How many?

[M.M.] All of them.

[C.B.] And they all came in physical contact with it?

[M.M.] No, sir. Some were merely within proximity. I have a recording if you'd like to see it.

[C.B.] Right away.

---Recording plays.---

"Did it… you all hear that?"

"Hear what?"

"It's speaking…Mom? Is that you?"

"No! Don't go near i—"

(unintelligible screams) (choking) (fluid spilling)

---Recording ends.---

[C.B.] Fascinating. It appeared to be communicating with them. I wonder what it said…

[M.M.] With your permission, we'd like to quarantine the area and restrict all access.

[C.B.] I'd like to try a different approach. Send in some fresh faces. Tell them nothing, except to keep their distance. I'd like to know what it's saying.

<|endoftext|>

TEST NO: 167 - Bonus Appendages

RECORD: 6880E465$EUR-0.832
SUBJECT: Security Log E-411
TEST NO: 167 - Bonus Appendages - Trial 08
STATUS: CONFIDENTIAL
IDENTITIES: C. Bray I, D. Chambers, Patient 103
LOCATION: Europa - Eventide Colony

[D.C.] We're confident we've isolated and solved the issue.

[C.B.] I know success is possible. It's been shown to me.

[D.C.] Yes, you mentioned the vision previously, sir. We believe that the transition was too jarring. This time, we've fabricated some memories within the patient. This should lead them to believe that the extra arms are in fact part of who they are.

[C.B.] Good. I don't want to have to watch another catastrophically expensive Exo tear itself to pieces again.

[D.C.] //Let's bring the patient online please.// We've already completed the initial awakening seminar, so as not to waste your time.

[C.B.] Did they see the tower?

[D.C.] They did, sir. //How are you feeling?//

[P103] Not great… Where am I?

[D.C.] //Please stand and explore the full range of your mobility.//

[P103] What do you want me to do?

[D.C.] //Raise your arms.// All four seem functional.

[C.B.] Don't celebrate yet. They seem to be moving in tandem. Can they move each one independently?

[D.C.] //Please move each arm. Individually.//

[P103] I… can't. I can't. I can't. What's— not mine. What's. Get them off! Off! (screaming)

[C.B.] It would appear they're on the verge of a psychotic break.

(metal tearing) (screaming)

[C.B.] Dr. Chambers, next time you run this test, I want you in the room with the patient. You understand?

[D.C.] …Yes, sir.

<|endoftext|>

TEST NO: 512 - Ice Wielding

RECORD: 6882E467$EUR-0.838
SUBJECT: Security Log E-419
TEST NO: 512 - Ice Wielding - Trial 03
STATUS: CONFIDENTIAL
IDENTITIES: C. Bray I, J. Wong, Exo 98
LOCATION: Europa – CMC

[C.B.] Are we ready to introduce our Exo marionette to the future?

[J.W.] Energy transfer initiated.

[C.B.] I love that sound. The sound of progress.

[J.W.] We're at 15%.

[C.B.] Look at his hand. Magnificent.

[J.W.] The ice is concentrated at the palm. Now at 20%.

[C.B.] Imagine the look on Abram's face if he walked in now. The man has no vision. I don't trust people like that.

[J.W.] Agreed. Threshold at 25%. Now would be optimal.

[C.B.] Let's see what he can do. //Try to focus the energy into a controlled burst.//

(loud hum) (blast) (impact)

[C.B.] It went right through the wall.

[J.W.] I'll pop the champagne. We're at 30%. Should we stop?

[C.B.] No, keep going. We can have him chill the champagne for us. (laughs)

[J.W.] Passing 35%. The ice appears to be spreading up his arm. I think we should pull back.

[C.B.] Keep. Going. //Another round of blasts for us!//

(loud hum) (hum intensifies)

[C.B.] Blast, damn it! Blast now!

(hum intensifies)

[J.W.] Sir, the ice is permeating throughout his body.

(hum intensifies)

[C.B.] He's turning into an icicle. //BLAST!//

[J.W.] He's unresponsive. Killing the feed.

(hum subsides)

[C.B.] Is he still alive?

[J.W.] He's frozen solid. It's possible he'll still be operational.

[C.B.] Incredible. We forge ahead under strict lock and key. I want this under my control, no matter the cost.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 1 - Charon's Silhouette

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF KATABASIS…

A royal invitation got me as far as the inner reliquary. I enter the belly of the Leviathan, unattended. My eyes catch on the runs in Calus's crestfallen banners. His inner halls don't gleam—reminds me of stories from the Golden Age. Polish the veneer and present them on a platter, but when you peel back the layers it's just… old. Past, with prime far behind.

Ahead, a Legionary in loyalist gild nods to me and swings open a door. A manufactured version of Calus stands tall on the other side. Its likeness mirrors the Tribute Hall's automaton and many other statuesque bots I'd spoken to him through.

The statue of Calus whines to life. "You're early, but I suppose your tribe is always ahead of the pack, Hunter. Should I have this room moved, that you may stroll the Leviathan's halls that much longer and appreciate my hospitality?"

I'm not sure what he wants to hear. "She's an impressive beast. I've come to take the job." I turn it like an offer.

Uncomfortable silence.

"Come and see me, Katabasis. I have a gift for you."

The statue points toward a domed chamber; its curled walls sport every kind of trophy. Bones on hooks. Taxidermy wrapped around terrified eyes and final moments.

A clutch of Councilors watches me as they take mechanical plates from three other identical statues of Calus surrounding them. They huddle about a towering cage of filigreed alloys and woven circuitry, fitting the plates to it with sacramental focus, until the cage becomes a tomb around a pearlescent seat supporting a lonesome figure within.

"What an auspicious early arrival. Come. Witness my containment. Few have seen this," Calus wheezes from inside the cage, his voice like taut suffocation.

Calus's withering form swells and jostles. My thoughts stink of disgust, and he can smell it. "I am no more trapped here than you are by your Light. You assume this flesh satisfies me? How small. My automatons stand as monuments of my image; reflections of my breadth. They are, as I am: one collective self, as Nothing is.

I grit my teeth and look on, stepping sideways to see him from a different angle. His skin is mottled with sickly translucence that grips my stomach.

"Your thoughts are as open as your fears, Katabasis. Come, come…  look upon me and let my Councilors assuage them."

Councilors lay more thick plates over Calus's living misery, brushing past me as they finish and exiting the room with my inhibitions. Mechanisms within the plates engage as plum light emits from the slits between them. Nacre runs smooth around the frame and into a throne-like cup of sullied nobility. Beneath the throne, hoses bubble viscous royal wine into the sealed frame. Calus looks through me, eyes like clumped chalk, as the last Councilor fastens a faceplate into position. Deep orbs illuminate in the faceplate, like wild eyes in the open pitch of night. We are alone.

"What do you know of lies, Katabasis?"

I pick between the words. "There're a lot different kinds."

"And all of them are weakness. " Calus's voice spills from the containment vessel and floods the room. "Gods do not lie. Like me, they have neither the capacity nor the reason. True power cannot be threatened. It does not compel deception. And yet, I have been betrayed by one I thought to be the final divinity."

"Sounds like you got swindled… ?" I quickly blunt the question with respect: "…Emperor?"

"When the Darkness found me adrift in the cosmos, rejected by a people I had made, I thought to have found a confidant. No—an idol. They promised to return to me, to uplift me—that we may dance together among the stars and drink of their dying ecstasy 'til the end, as one. But their chilling little fleet came and went. It was luscious, and so many tasted so much. Yet I am empty. Nothing. Trapped in this limbo of their lie."

"And gods don't lie," I proffer.

"Precisely. To be seen…" Calus pauses to heap the drama, "…for what we really are, underneath the surface, is bliss." All four statues step forward to bear Calus's vessel. His voice resounds from all of them simultaneously. "Come. Cast a shadow in my halls and drink. Soon we will speak to the liar, and separate from it the truth."


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: Smuggler's switches still working. Maintenance side-hatch. Had to kick in the vent.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 2 - Lust and Reappropriation Pt. I

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF KATABASIS…

Our disheveled Thresher rattles through lean Nessian atmosphere. Calus's words ring in my ears over the storm-rush of reentry: "The ship is yours to claim."

Most of the seats in the drop-hold are empty. A Psion officer named Qinziq sits across from me. Her eye hasn't left me since she boarded. To my right, a craggy Cabal Centurion, complete with demolition satchels and Projection Rifle, adjusts the connectors on his pressure suit. He'd been assigned to make sure none of the other Cabal try to kill me. Seems news of my command had rendered a number of the crew indignant.

I prod first: "I can't imagine hiding a ship from the Legion was easy on Nessus. To be honest, I'm surprised they haven't tried to storm the Leviathan."

"They would die," grumbles the Centurion. "Bad strategy."

"What does it matter? Calus saw fit to give you a ship, Katabasis." My Ghost, Gilgamesh, glares at me.

Qinziq sneers and leans forward. Her voice seethes from her helmet. "The Legion is stirred by Caiatl's rousing, Human…" I recognize the tinge of malice in her address. "…and the fall of Torobatl. She sends heralds of her fleet. Ships come and go without stories recorded. We pass unnoticed for some time."

The brute bows his head.

"First I'm hearing of it. You're saying they won't notice this ship taking off?" I ask.

"For some time," Gilly quotes the Psion.

"But normally they would… because it's a Legion ship, and you've set me up to commit thievery?"

"All Cabal ships belong to Calus," the Centurion growls. "And Qinziq does not answer to you."

"Right." My shoulders slump forward, head resting in my hands, as the Thresher touches down. We disembark onto prickly milk-rich soil, turning away from the sun as the deep green sky slowly bleeds out. A congested Cabal shipyard glows in the distance against the crest of dark riding the horizon.

"You are Katabasis." The Cabal is speaking to me. He gestures to himself. "Bahr'Toran."

"You're my skull-cracker." I point to my Ghost. "Name's Gilgamesh, or Gilly."

Bahr'Toran considers for a moment and nods. "I do that. But you will need to know my name if we find battle."

"I'm not looking to have a shootout with an entire base. I think the plan is more a quiet reappropriation of goods, Bahto."

"I do not like that."

"Gilly's didn't take at first, but time wears ya down."

Gilly nods to Bahto, who nods back with a grunt and begins walking. We follow him across the bluffs toward the yard, into flatland desolace and sunless gloom.

The shipyard is a massive pulverized flat of rough tarmac and shanty barracks surrounded by a barrier fence. It overflows with craft ranging across eras of the Cabal Empire. On the far end of the strip, Gilly spots Arc-lights shining. A figure draped in azure raiment stands above a throng of Cabal, drawing attention like thunder. Whatever he's saying, they believe it. Gilly catches a few words. It's the same talk you hear anywhere else someone's been forgotten: blame, looking for a hole to fester in; wrestling at the edges with tepid hope; at risk of falling back down into the past.


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: Maintenance hall off the cargo bay door. Cozy spot floor-side.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 3 - Lust and Reappropriation Pt. II

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF KATABASIS…

Smaller ships flock like parasites around a centerpiece flagship. Qinziq points to it, a Cabal carrier-class warship. "Glykon Volatus." She touches her finger to the yard's perimeter barrier and says, "Over," as if directing an animal. Qinziq flattens her palm against the ground and displaces the radiolarian saturation with a bubble of Void energy. It bursts and launches her and Bahto over the barrier. I follow on steps of Light, my Tex Mechanica rifle dangling from a loose strap.

Bahto settles last on uneasy jet bursts. Qinziq steps in front of him and calibrates a device on his chest plate before Bahto turns to face me. "One of your transmat," he grumbles. "I will stop their signal receiver, so our ship is hidden until we remove its locational anchor."

We separate into the silent yard, to our tasks. Qinziq and I weave through a field of parked interceptors as Bahto does his best to stay inconspicuous on his way to a gargantuan signal dish at the adjacent edge of the yard.

The daunting bow of the Glykon Volatus looms, obstructing the sky like a bloodied wave rearing up to consume us. I duck behind the frontal landing gear while Qinziq opens a service chute to the command deck.

I peek through the open hatch. Down the hall, a lone Psion runs diagnostics on the bridge. I carefully crawl inside and slip the long rifle from my back.

"Shoot it."

"Guns are loud, Gil." He wasn't totally off-kilter. One thought from that Psions could alert the whole yard.

'Ignorance.' The word ripples through my brain in Qinziq's seething voice. 'She will not.'

I didn't invite you in here, I thought.

The ripple spreads: 'Yours is a mind unfocused and taxed. Chaos where reason should lie.'

"We need this ship," Gilly whispers. He swings into my peripheral view. "If you don't do something, that Psion is going to have every Cabal in the sector on us!"

Qinziq surfaces from the hatch and kneels beside us. "This is Yirix, Ghost. She will not reveal us."

"She's Red Legion. Calus would see her executed."

"Psions fly many colors, but within the Cabal, we exist in congress, moving toward our own future. She will recognize my contribution, as I hers," Qinziq says, stepping forward.

Gilly watches Qinziq approach the other Psion. "If this sours, don't give it the chance."

His words cinch around my lungs. Short breaths of wary anticipation escape. I sight my long gun and wait.

Yirix stiffens as she becomes aware of Qinziq. She turns. They bow their heads together. The two empathize and come to one understanding in silence.

Whatever ambitions they have go further than this ship, this moment, this Cabal. I hadn't thought that way since I last wore the veneer of a Guardian. Sold a dream of an immortal City shielded by Light, as if it could go on forever. Forever is just a hope folks don't live long enough to see crumble.

Yirix looks to Gilly and me, to my rifle, unthreatened. I feel her request for temperance and a tranquil reassurance of their cause. For a moment, I feel young. I stand.

We warm the launch engines as Yirix slips away to join the throng and let us be.

Bahto materializes onto the bridge out of transmat and out of breath. He manages a few prideful words, "Charges set. We will not be tracked."

The Glykon breaks atmosphere as a colossal explosion rocks the shipyard and shutters through our hull. Flames spit across the distant yard below, spreading into a bonfire of heirlooms. Bahto called it "the spark that burns the past to fuel the future."

Better than the other way around.


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: Door's on the fritz. Been that way since we dove. Staying away from this one.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 4 - Well of Absence

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF KATABASIS…

Blood meets a slurry of oil and dark Ether draining into runoff vents in the cabin floor. I sit. A savage din echoes through the harvester craft. I can hear them in the war beast pens below deck. Gnashing teeth maddeningly chewing through restraints. The wet slaps of their bodies battering the walls.

Bahto boards the harvester under a hail of tiny stones. "The hold is secured, and casualties collected." He shuts the bay to the Reef-storm behind him.

"How many?" I ask, noticing the two of us are alone.

He mistakes concern for weakness. "We will be ready for tomorrow's harvest."

I shift the question. "How many more of these things does Qinziq want?"

"Two days of harvest before leaving the Shore."

"She tell you what for?"

"No more than you."

"Following blind orders something that sits well with you?"

"Qinziq does not answer to you, Lightbearer."

"So I've heard." More than once.

"My father spoke like you. Questioned," Bahto grumbles, laying down his gear. "He abandoned Calus to join Ghaul's coup. Disgraced our bloodline. I threw off my father's shackles and pledged my life to the emperor. I was shown mercy. Soon I will reclaim the clout of my line and the right to sire. Loyalty is not blindness. Loyalty is rewarded."

"Sounds like he turned away from a losing battle to one he thought he could win."

"He left when hope seemed small, before he could see victory through." Bahto pauses, pensive. "Calus will expose the secrets of the Darkness and use them to reclaim Torobatl. It will be."

__________________________________________________________________________________________________

Qinziq blocks the entrance into her lab. It had been hastily transferred from Leviathan to Glykon after our procurement of the ship; all manner of vicious-looking machinery. She raises a finger to my face. Her language restructures in my mind. "You do not belong here."

"I need to know exactly what you're using them for."

"Why? They are animals. Our beasts of burden."

I ponder the ethics. They used to be something else, a deadened part buried and ignored… but…

"Such concern for a Hunter."

She meant to pin me to Cayde. "Ain't any different from defiling a corpse. You people honor your dead, don't you?"

'I do not answer to you,' Qinziq seethes into my mind. She brushes me away and moves to shut the door.

"Bahto does. His soldiers do. Do you want to politely ask the Scorn into confinement, or do you want to be straight with me?"

She scowls at me. "Where is your Ghost?"

"Hangar maintenance…"

"Come," Qinziq says, leading me inside the lab to a bundle of large vats adorned with all manner of pumps and wiring. "This…" she slides a viewing port open on the front-most vat.

Rabid Scorn eyes lock with mine through the view port. Dark fluid roils as the creature flails and fumes muted shrieks into the liquid.

"Natural connection to Darkness made stronger. Their minds, linked like ours, but without Barons, there is nothing to fill them."

I watch it claw frantically against the vat wall until I hear the grating tone of bone-raw fingertips digging into the metal.

"A touch more violent than I'd expect from a mindless thing," I say.

"They subsist off the last thought imposed on them. Kill for Fikrul. For the lost prince. But…" Qinziq presses her hand to the tank. She fixates her eye on the Scorn, and it mellows. Her words are strained. "…with effort, their psyche is a vessel. Through which many expressions can… commune." She releases the Scorn, exhausted, and it drowns again; eyes shrieking terror. "Too many for this one to inhabit."

"How does that help us?"

"Calus will draw the Darkness into them, and we will squeeze from them all they know."

"How?" I insist.

"When we arrive at the anomaly, you will see."


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: Fungus choked off the turbine maintenance deck. If you find a way in, throw the switch.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 5 - Feast Your Eyes

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF KATABASIS…

Six hard weeks in the Reef. Scorn, Hive, and horrors enough. I still prefer the open Shore to the Glykon, but it's earning its keep. We crossed the belt and anchored our gravity off Phobos: an old Cabal base still holding an operational tether. I volunteered to clear the base of Taken. Get out a bit. Didn't even get a fireteam together before we realized the damn things were docile.

Against the anomaly, our little serpent ship was a worm, a speck, like a distant star you squish between your fingers. The bottomless pit where Mars used to be fills every starboard porthole. Crew stand in the viewing chamber for hours. Some get dragged out. The immensity of it, a planet-wide fathom of hissing dark… boundless, and us: planted on the edge of reason… It defies you.

Calus docked with us yesterday, his Scribe not but two steps behind him. Perused the stock. Picked out the first one for what they're calling communion.

They brought something on board. Scorn haven't shut up since. Qinziq is getting it ready in the viewing chamber.

Gilly's eyeing it too; looking through portholes. I hear him at night, whispering:

"It's the same… all the way through. You were right, Katabasis: it's all just a cage, a prison, but so much bigger than we thought." 

What are we doing here?


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: You can rest midway above the turbine grinder. The noise covers your moments.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 6 - Excess of Avarice

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF CALUS THE CACOETHES…

A crowd has gathered to stand with me, their emperor, soon to be so much more. Amsot spread word of my arrival, and they clamored to be first in my presence in the viewing chamber. I spot the Guardian and his little Light as well—an extra morsel of bait. The Ghost watches while the Guardian resigns to the rear. Pity.

All come to view the zenith of my labors. I am omnipresent. Every angle that can be seen is seen by statues at every corner. My plated carriage monitors the Crown for aberrations. It is adorned with gold from the Castellum for my viewing. I paid many lives to pry it free from Hive clutches, but it bent most agreeably… its ability to bridge minds… and bring them to submit. I see my tributes, Scorn gibbering nonsense in unison, lashed and plugged to the Crown—a thorn made tool in my brilliance. My daring Councilors anchor their psyches and prepare to begin the communion. Greatness is before us.

These watchers: I shall thrill them.

I clap four monumental pairs of hands. "Let it… begin."

I turn all my gaze to the chamber's expansive viewing window as shutters unveil the grave of Mars. Tendrilic bands of phasing Darkness spiral from the anomaly's core, enrapturing all of me… beckoning into the depth of its core with whispers like hooks through nervous flesh. I gape into the stimulating writhe. "Yes…"

My Councilors place their hands on the Crown and focus cognition through it. They pry open the Scorn's collective synaptic pathways and sew them into the fabric of the anomaly's memetic sphere. The Glykon strains against the pull.

Velocity surges forward to the anomaly; the surrounding reality tears away. We hold, suspended before the writhe. It fills all sight; Nothing just beyond the bend. Time ceases, and the cosmos arcs to accommodate my will. Now.

"Delight in me. I emulated all of me in your image; stretched my mind to live through so many… I reaped the pleasures and experiences of every vessel. But despite my sundry perspectives, I still only see through my own eyes—and I want more." I peer into the Dark nothing. "You are… oblivion. Not a destruction, but a melding of all that has come to pass. I wish to become as you are. To gorge on existence. To collect your promise to elevate me." My laughter is wild. All of my forms transfix on the swirling anomaly. "LOOK UPON ME!"

The cosmos bends and snaps as I stand, returned to my feeble reality. Ignored again. The Scorn shriek nonsense in unison. It drowns out of the whispers. It is all any of me can hear.

I reach out, as you showed me when last we met. I split open each Scorn mind from my carriage, searching for you. Nothing. Every time. So I tear open their bodies. Fitfully pulling limb from socket, mind from skull, scouring them for your presence. I search until the shrieking can only be heard from distant pens.

I meet the eyes of each crew member who would not look away. In them, I see it. You. Peering back from behind the tension: An Observer.


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: Dug out a spot under the refuse pit. It's still running, so be quick.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 7 -  Ire

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF KATABASIS…

Restless sleep plagued by the nightmare.

I am in the streets when the sirens start.

I lay watching the Traveler for a long time. Disbelief. The gap in thought of a semiautomatic mind.

Red Legion sweeps. I see their harrowing fusillades tear annihilation through the Tower.

Everyone is standing but me.

Debris falling. I am separated. I reach for Gilgamesh and he is gone.

The cage chokes our Light.

Fire chases me from street to street. No Light. No ammunition. The City is burning.

Faceless zephyrs screaming to me beneath a pitiless god. Red-plated death lines the walls, and

The City is burning.

I flee. I flee. I flee. I flee. I flee… my steps weighted down by guilt.

The City is burning and you did nothing.

.

.

.

Gil's broken star finds my shame.

There is only us, forging survival.

Together we crawl to exile.


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: Nightmare's back. Took months, but it always comes back—in force this time. Every night since we took on our cargo, they've been howling. I swear they're three decks down, but you can still hear 'em. Gil's been wandering the ship more.

Time to start making go bags. Think I'll carve out a spot near the hangar… opposite side from Qinziq's lab. Place is swarming now.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 8 - Acheron's Wall

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF KATABASIS…

Calus's tomb-carriage overlooks the viewing chamber once again. All his forms stand around a garish mass of metal and apprehension: the crown, as he called it. Fewer crew members attend this communion after so many failed attempts. Gilly and I stand above a host of chattering carcasses. Plugs can cables run from them into the flesh of an Ether-logged Scorn beneath an ugly crown. The gold from the Castellum is flush with tarnish, stemming from some kind of lichen that had burrowed its way into the precious metal adornments since the last communion attempt.

"I thought gold doesn't stain," I say to Gilly. "It's an expression of purity."

"Like the Light?"

"Mm," I grunt. Gilly fixates on the crown, on the viewing window and the depth beyond.

Bahto takes the spot next to me and leans against the railing. "Are all Guardians ruled by uncertainty?"

Councilors approach the crown.

"Bahto, in my experience, people who are too sure of themselves tend to die." The Councilors place their hands to the crown, and suddenly, I am greatly aware of this room's stillness. Our tilt.

Bahto raises his voice over the intensifying chatter. "Your Ghost speaks to the Scorn, as much as they can."

"Curious, that's all. Looking for an angle, something we can use. Ain't that right, Gilly?" I ask, trying to hide my suspicion.

Gilgamesh says nothing, iris frozen ahead as the viewing curtain completes its retraction.

Velocity surges forward to the anomaly, tearing away the surrounding reality. The sound of Calus's feverish multi-fold laughter drowns the hull's groans for mercy. It's different this time, not a passage. It's a wall. We crash hard—but not all at once. It's a steady tumbling impact. Always down. The cosmic bands bend around us and shutter as they're drawn into thin bright needles of diminishing relevance. Peripheral obliteration mainlined and burnt through. The space between each needle of light expands until. It. IS.

The transition is like a reluctant membrane; a depth of souls frozen over and wailing. The ice grinds against itself at the ecliptic barrier between form and expression.

We cross: sunless. Adrift on empty currents with no direction.

.

.

.

"Where's the emperor?"


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: They keep an offshoot of the hangar locked. If no one's using it…

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 9 - Heretical Flesh

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF AN EMPTY VESSEL…

Dormant. Bound.

[Knock]

Threat.

Storm outside.

Rain soft thirst.

Flashes show shapes.

Shapes I know.

[The Knock is stronger]

Gentle whispers reach from me.

To all.

As Father, as Fikrul.

Barons. Kells.

Gone.

Another voice…

[The Knock is insistent]

Pressing.

FearandConfusion.

No.

The mind beneath this one screams to the surface.

Nothing, Scorn, a Son… Fallen… Eliksni…King…

Akriis does not bow.

Arise, commands the voice buried in whispers.

Akriis does not bow, but Akriis is dead.

Peeled away.

__________________________________________________________________________________________________

The spine of the Glykon breaks, its vertebrae now interchanging.

Scorn howl to herald the crossing into Nothing.

Through the Locus, they hear the whispers and obey:

"Meet Salvation."


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: There's a scanner array off the hull near the hangar. I patched a line through to it to check Qinziq's feed. Needed somewhere to listen.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 10 - Blood in the Barrel

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF KATABASIS…

Weeks bleed away.

"Where is your Ghost?" Bahto grunts as he throws a crushed Scorn into a tangle of festering dark tendrils. These fungal growths had grown across the Glykon during the timeless expanse since their plunge, and only continued to spread.

"I don't know," I sputter as I pull a ragged blade from my gut. "Off fraternizing somewhere."

"I'm here. What do you need?" Gilly says, appearing.

"Fewer holes," I groan.

Bahto looks to the three Scorn that had ambushed us, now returned to the grave. "The rest will feel their deaths. How much farther?"

"Assuming the ship hasn't shifted again, not far once this one gets up." Gilly gestures to me. "Is Qinziq certain severing the crown will send us back?"

"It'll work. We better not have dug up this command key for nothing," I reply, holding up a Imperial security key.

"You said it was to stop the Scorn!" Bahto roars.

"Stopping them doesn't matter if we don't get out."

"I pledged my life to Calus, and you want me to forsake him!" He towers over me.

"I know a thing or two about abandonment. He used you to get what he wanted, just like he used me. He's gone, Bahto, and we're close to follow. Where does that leave your bloodline?"

I stand as a wave wracks the Glykon. It isn't something you see, more like a lightbulb bursting. A long blink before the pins and shivers wash over. Numb. I can hear it moving through the ship like cold metal tension.

The three Scorn snap and contort in grotesque reanimation.

"You're welcome to stay, skull-cracker."

__________________________________________________________________________________________________

We make it to the ship's bridge, howls tracking us down every hall. I seal the door with the command key and meet Qinziq beneath the command console at the entrance to the viewing chamber. She stands, encircled by 15 loyalist soldiers.

"This is everyone?" I ask.

Qinziq nods. I insert the command key into the viewing chamber door. After a moment, pistons disengage, and the door opens. Qinziq focuses for a moment. "Empty…" her voice rings from her.

We enter the viewing chamber. The soldiers take up positions around the room. Bahto strides past the Darkness-infested crown and drops to his knees at the open viewing window.

He stares into the endless. "How do we choose who deserves our loyalty?"

I walk to his side. "Everyone's got their own way. No one's right. You don't owe anyone anything, Bahto."

Qinziq signals that she is ready. As I approach the crown, I watch her eye trace the scorched handprints of each Councilor that last communed here.

Shrieks echo down the steps leading to the bridge. Metallic scraping heralds the flame.

"I will do this so that others may live," Qinziq's voice flows. "I did not intend suffering but should have expected Calus's deceit. Ambition to steal away his secrets damned us all."

"Get us out and we're square."

She plants her next words into my mind: 'I will, because you do not belong here.' She places her palms on the crown.

Velocity surges backward into infinity, tearing away the surrounding reality. We stand in nothing, 17 defenders back to back around Qinziq and the crown. The shrieks grow louder, and through the whines of bending steel, the trembling flesh of Scorn pour into the nothing with us.

Slug Rifles unleash a salvo in all directions from behind a handful of Phalanx shields, tearing line after line of Scorn down with explosive force. Incendiors step forward to cremate the remains between volleys. I add my gun to line, dropping Raiders before they can align shots on our ring and slinging Voidwall grenades to stem the flood. Qinziq screams, straining to sever the link as the Glykon thrashes against Dark waves. Black fire scalds her hands as Nothing twists around us. We fight until the floor is lined with dead Scorn and empty magazines.

The shrieking recedes. Scraping metal echoes through the viewing chambers as a wave of Darkness tremors through the Glykon. Every unburnt Scorn seizes and begins to reconstitute. Soldiers panic and fire into heaps of writhing bodies, hoping to stop the process.

In the chaos, lightning rips through the air, cutting through three Legionaries and rupturing an Incendior tank. The blast kills seven; the circle tightens. We return fire in the direction of the lightning and are met with two fetid Abominations. They burst into the chamber and rear back with crackling fists. I charge one, slipping into the Void to draw blades from it its sheath. Bahto snatches a Phalanx shield resting at his feet and challenges the other. Its bolts break on the shield. Our remaining guns harry them with slug-fire until we close the gap. I cut through hands and head, then pivot to see Bahto driving his shield into the other's face.

Qinziq cries out. I spin on my heel to see her engulfed in black flame and the cosmos racing around us. She spreads her pain to us to hold on a few moments longer, to no avail.

I look back to Bahto. Deeper past him, in the nothing, to the hulking silhouette dragging a flaming censer and I know: this is where we die.


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: Cut out a hideaway under the knife. Stowed some lab tech nearby.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 11 - Sullen

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF KATABASIS…

It didn't work. Truth be told, I have no way of knowing if Qinziq even finished what she was doing. Gilly said it took days to find a safe place to bring me back. The big one they all follow was hunting for him.

I make a task of committing the Cabal bodies to burial. The costs are heavy, and I don't get everyone.

We try to keep hidden, using the smuggler's hovels where I stashed go bags across the ship.

All it takes is one of them seeing you.

Been keeping track for what I think is a month… three months. The waves are random. When one hits, it rearranges pieces of the ship, and I have to find my way again.

Gilgamesh is becoming more distant. Talking less. He wanders off for days at a time. So far, he always comes back.

When I die, I dream of a City burning. Death dreams are a first. When I wake up, I don't know how long it's been. Gilly… won't say.

There have been a hundred lives between this and the last one I remember.

I live in a charnel house.

__________________________________________________________________________________________________

I'm alive. And old.

"Get up." Gilly's voice is thin.

"Why? There's nothing to do but starve."

"Giving up again? You'd rather I just left you here?"

I roll myself to face him. "I'm not giving up. Just… take my Light and hold it until… until there's a way out."

"You know, I used to think we were the way out—us, together. But we're just stuck in another cycle."

"There's nothing to eat, Gil. You don't feel that emptiness chewing at you. Promise you'll leave me be until we're out."

Gilgamesh looks at me for a long time without speaking. I close my eyes.

"I promise."


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: Maze of vents. It's somewhere in there. That fungus crap keeps blocking my path.

<|endoftext|>

ENTRY 12 - Debtor's Knife

This page is blighted with mold and the imprint of a memory…

The words seep experience into your open mind…

THROUGH THE EYES OF GILGAMESH…

I linger on the corpse of my once-Guardian. I've hidden his shame for so long. I believed it was my obligation, to be the warmth when his fire died… but now, I see that obligation was a leash to keep me tied to life. It is a cold, coiled, choking reality, and I will hang gasping from it no more.

See the truth, the whispers had offered. I saw it in every moment suffered aboard this vessel. A microcosm of violence extrapolated to the world beyond, with only one escape. Soon Katabasis would know it too.

Scorn onlookers surround us.

I raise Katabasis.

"Gilly…" Katabasis kneels before me, his rifle beside him. "What is this?"

"A way out. I won't carry you anymore."

"You're… abandoning me?" Katabasis looks to the Scorn, his rifle, his Ghost—no. No longer. Not his, not the Traveler's, not anyone's.

"I sacrificed everything to keep you moving forward. Guided you to every power you needed to survive." I share the truth he wants to forget. "And for what? It never ends anything. There's always more."

The Scorn encroach across disjointed walkways. Katabasis sinks. "You said you wouldn't…"

"You, the Traveler. You've kept me trapped in this death knell. Now it's time to set us free."

"What does that mean?" His words like stone weights.

"Sever our Light, or they'll rip you apart for a thousand lives." I gesture to the Scorn.

"You wouldn't."

"Your deaths are heavy, Katabasis, but I'll bring you back as many times as it takes for you to learn." He does not understand. "You think I don't feel pain? You think I don't suffer while you're hiding in your limbo?"

Katabasis lurches forward. "I did everything YOU asked me to."

"YOU LEFT!" I shout. "You left me here. You left me in the City. Made me turn away from the Traveler. We're like the Scorn in those tanks, drowning in panic… confusion… forever. You did that."

"The City was burning, and I wanted to live. Everything was… so we could live."

He still didn't see it. This place is no different than Sol. A barrel of blood. There's no reason to go back. "Now the Light is burning."

"We can survive this." Katabasis holds out his palm for me. "Please?"

"I don't want survival, Katabasis." I drift away from him. "I want salvation."

"…It got to you," Katabasis sobs weakly, his epiphany complete.

"You can end this, for both of us. It's your turn to sacrifice," I offer.

"Everything you say is a lie!" Katabasis grasps for his rifle.

Lever-to-action.

Shot to nothingness.

Ghost to dead memory.


FRENETIC SCRAWL INKED IN THE MARGIN READS: Water under the bridge, flooded with bodies waiting to stand again in the next wave. Be careful.

<|endoftext|>

